{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral-Regular;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 CambriaMath;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;\red0\green0\blue233;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 258 publications since 2010 reviewed by Vaserstein for Zbl\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:goodwin.simon-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Goodwin, Simon M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06398982"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On commuting varieties of nilradicals of Borel subalgebras of reductive Lie algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06398982"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006398982}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000624"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Edinb. Math. Soc., II. Ser. 58, No. 1, 169-181 (2015).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B45}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bashkirov.evgenii-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bashkirov, Evgenii L.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06398745"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On subgroups of the group
\f1\i \ulnone  GL
\i0\fs18 7\

\f0\fs24 \ul over a field that contain a Chevalley group of type
\f1\i \ulnone  G
\i0\fs18 2\

\f0\fs24 \ul over a subfield.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06398745"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006398745}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 219, No. 6, 1992-2014 (2015).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chen.xiaoyu"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chen, Xiaoyu}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wang.jianpan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wang, Jianpan}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06397717"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Krull-Schmidt decomposition of some tensor products of costandard modules for
\f1\i \ulnone \
SL
\i0\fs18 3
\fs24 (
\i k
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06397717"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006397717}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 219, No. 5, 1850-1867 (2015).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:orlik.sascha"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Orlik, Sascha}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:strauch.matthias"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Strauch, Matthias}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06394342"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On Jordan-H\'f6lder series of some locally analytic representations.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06394342"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006394342}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001206"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Am. Math. Soc. 28, No. 1, 99-157 (2015).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bate.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bate, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:herpel.sebastian"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Herpel, Sebastian}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:martin.benjamin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Martin, Benjamin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06393800"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf2 G
\f0\i0 \ul -complete reducibility in non-connected groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06393800"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006393800}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000623"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 143, No. 3, 1085-1100 (2015).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:detinko.alla-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Detinko, A.S.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:flannery.dane-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Flannery, D.L.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:de-graaf.willem-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 de Graaf, W.A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06378427"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Integrality and arithmeticity of solvable linear groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06378427"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006378427}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001072"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Symb. Comput. 68, Part 1, 138-145 (2015).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20%2d04"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20-04}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:68W30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 68W30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:uchiyama.tomohiro"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Uchiyama, Tomohiro}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06370258"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Separability and complete reducibility of subgroups of the Weyl group of a simple algebraic group of type
\f1\i \ulnone \
E
\i0\fs18 7
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06370258"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006370258}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 422, 357-372 (2015).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G41}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gordeev.nikolai-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gordeev, N.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ellers.erich-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ellers, E.W.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06410185"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commutators with some special elements in Chevalley groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06410185"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006410185}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Math. Sci., New York 202, No. 3, 395-403 (2014) and Zap. Nauchn. Semin. POMI 413, 93-105 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hazrat.roozbeh"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hazrat, R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stepanov, A.V.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vavilov.nikolai-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, N.A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zhang.zuhong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhang, Z.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06406421"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The yoga of commutators: further applications.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06406421"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006406421}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Math. Sci., New York 200, No. 6, 742-768 (2014) and Zap. Nauchn. Semin. POMI 421, 166-213 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sinchuk.s-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sinchuk, S.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06404231"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Improved stability for the odd-dimensional orthogonal group.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06404231"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006404231}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Math. Sci., New York 199, No. 3, 343-349 (2014); translation from Zap. Nauchn. Semin. POMI 414, 181-192 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:badulescu.alexandru-ioan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Badulescu, Alexandru Ioan}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06384370"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic Speh representations.}} 
\i (English. French summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.22016"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.22016}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000374"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bull. Soc. Math. Fr. 142, No. 2, 255-267 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:black.jodi"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Black, Jodi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:parimala.raman"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Parimala, Raman}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06382642"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Totaro\'92s question for simply connected groups of low rank.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1302.11015"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01302.11015}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000615"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pac. J. Math. 269, No. 2, 257-267 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E72"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E72}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E57"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E57}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E81"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E81}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lemke-oliver.robert-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lemke Oliver, Robert J.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06377478"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Representation by ternary quadratic forms.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1304.11019"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01304.11019}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000369"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bull. Lond. Math. Soc. 46, No. 6, 1237-1247 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E45}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:adler.jeffrey-d"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Adler, Jeffrey D.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lansky.joshua-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lansky, Joshua M.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06377359"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lifting representations of finite reductive groups. I: Semisimple conjugacy classes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06377359"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006377359}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000383"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can. J. Math. 66, No. 6, 1201-1224 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20C33"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20C33}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tadic.marko"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tadi\uc0\u263 , Marko}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06374871"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Irreducibility criterion for representations induced by essentially unitary ones (case of non-Archimedean
\f1\i \ulnone \
GL
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 ,
\i \uc0\u55349 \u56476 
\i0 )
\f0 \ul ).}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1304.22023"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01304.22023}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001578"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Glas. Mat., III. Ser. 49, No. 1, 123-161 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:matringe.nadir"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matringe, Nadir}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06371823"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Unitary representations of
\f1\i \ulnone \
GL
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 ,
\i K
\i0 )
\f0 \ul  distinguished by a Galois involution for a
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic field
\f1\i \ulnone  K
\f0\i0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.22024"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.22024}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000615"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pac. J. Math. 271, No. 2, 445-460 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:minguez.alberto"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'ednguez, Alberto}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:secherre.vincent"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\'e9cherre, Vincent}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06370491"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Types modulo
\f1\i \ulnone   \uc0\u8467  
\f0\i0 \ul for interior forms of
\f1\i \ulnone \
GL
\fs18 n 
\f0\i0\fs24 \ul over a non-Archimedean local field. (Types modulo
\f1\i \ulnone  \uc0\u8467 \

\f0\i0 \ul pour les formes int\'e9rieures de
\f1\i \ulnone \
GL
\fs18 n 
\f0\i0\fs24 \ul sur un corps local non Archim\'e9dien.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1302.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01302.22013}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000628"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. (3) 109, No. 4, 823-891 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bushnell.colin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bushnell, Colin J.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:henniart.guy-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Henniart, Guy}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06369433"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Modular local Langlands correspondence for GL
\f1\i\fs18 \ulnone n
\f0\i0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1302.22011"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01302.22011}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001388"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. Math. Res. Not. 2014, No. 15, 4124-4145 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lubotzky.alexander"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lubotzky, Alexander}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rosenzweig.lior"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rosenzweig, Lior}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06365642"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Galois group of random elements of linear groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1304.11125"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01304.11125}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000300"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Am. J. Math. 136, No. 5, 1347-1383 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11R32"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11R32}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:12F10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 12F10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20P05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:orlik.sascha"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Orlik, Sascha}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:schraen.benjamin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schraen, Benjamin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06358806"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Jordan-H\'f6lder series of the locally analytic Steinberg representation.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1300.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01300.22012}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Doc. Math., J. DMV 19, 647-671 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bushnell.colin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bushnell, Colin J.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:henniart.guy-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Henniart, Guy}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06357639"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 To an effective local Langlands correspondence.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1301.22011"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01301.22011}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000584"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mem. Am. Math. Soc. 1087, iii-v, 88 p. (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:patel.deepam"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Patel, Deepam}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:schmidt.tobias"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schmidt, Tobias}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:strauch.matthias"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Strauch, Matthias}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06353689"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Locally analytic representations and sheaves on the Bruhat-Tits building.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1298.22021"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01298.22021}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00005004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Number Theory 8, No. 6, 1365-1445 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:friedlander.john-b"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Friedlander, John B.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wooley.trevor-d"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wooley, Trevor D.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06347381"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On Waring\'92s problem: two squares and three biquadrates.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1303.11111"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01303.11111}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000580"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mathematika 60, No. 1, 153-165 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11P05}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ganter.nora"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ganter, Nora}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kapranov.mikhail-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kapranov, Mikhail}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06345805"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Symmetric and exterior powers of categories.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06345805"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006345805}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 19, No. 1, 57-103 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18D20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18D20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B67"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B67}}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:goldberg.david-h%7Cgoldberg.david-alan%7Cgoldberg.david-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Goldberg, David}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:shahidi.freydoon"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Shahidi, Freydoon}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06342620"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The tempered spectrum of quasi-split classical groups. III.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1297.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01297.22018}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001254"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Forum Math. 26, No. 4, 1029-1069 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:onn.uri"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Onn, Uri}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:singla.pooja"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Singla, Pooja}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06340874"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the unramified principal series of
\f1\i \ulnone \
GL
\i0 (3)
\f0 \ul  over non-Archimedean local fields.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1298.22020"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01298.22020}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 397, 1-17 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:witte-morris.dave"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Morris, Dave Witte}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:studenmund.daniel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Studenmund, Daniel}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06339540"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nonarchimedean superrigidity of solvable
\f1\i \ulnone  S
\f0\i0 \ul -arithmetic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06339540"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006339540}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 416, 184-199 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:jaramillo.andrew"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jaramillo, Andrew}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06336188"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Quantized coordinate rings of the unipotent radicals of the standard Borel subgroups in
\f1\i \ulnone \
SL
\fs18 n
\i0 +1
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06336188"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006336188}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 413, 226-246 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mitra.arnab"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mitra, Arnab}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06336000"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On representations of
\f1\i \ulnone  GL
\i0\fs18 2
\i n
\i0\fs24 (
\i F
\i0 )
\f0 \ul  with a symplectic period.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1297.22020"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01297.22020}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000615"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pac. J. Math. 268, No. 2, 435-463 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:aubert.anne-marie"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Aubert, Anne-Marie}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:przebinda.tomasz"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Przebinda, Tomasz}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06335856"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A reverse engineering approach to the Weil representation.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1297.22008"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01297.22008}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cent. Eur. J. Math. 12, No. 10, 1500-1585 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E45}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bellaiche.joel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bella\'efche, Jo\'ebl}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chenevier.gaetan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chenevier, Ga\'ebtan}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06335832"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Subgroups of
\f1\i \ulnone  GL
\i0\fs18 2 
\f0\fs24 \ul and trees. (Sous-groupes de
\f1\i \ulnone  GL
\i0\fs18 2 
\f0\fs24 \ul et arbres.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.20058}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 410, 501-525 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E08"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E08}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zibrowius.marcus"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zibrowius, Marcus}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06334063"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Twisted Witt groups of flag varieties.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.19002"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.19002}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00006558"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. K-Theory 14, No. 1, 139-184 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14M15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14M15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18F25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18F25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E81"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E81}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bashkirov.evgenii-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bashkirov, E.L.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gupta.chander-kanta"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gupta, C.K.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06331122"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear groups over integral extensions of semilocal commutative rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1304.20063"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01304.20063}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 42, No. 10, 4149-4171 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bernik.janez"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bernik, Janez}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mastnak.mitja"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mastnak, Mitja}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06330891"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Note on prehomogeneous vector spaces.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1304.20059"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01304.20059}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000595"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Monatsh. Math. 174, No. 3, 371-376 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11S90"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11S90}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:venkataramana.tyakal-nanjundiah"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Venkataramana, T.N.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06330883"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Monodromy of cyclic coverings of the projective line.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1296.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01296.22013}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000465"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Invent. Math. 197, No. 1, 1-45 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F36}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rao.dhvanita-r"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rao, Dhvanita R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gupta.neena"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gupta, Neena}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06329099"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the non-injectivity of the Vaserstein symbol in dimension three.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06329099"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006329099}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 399, 378-388 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:13C10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 13C10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B14"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B14}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:galt.a-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gal\'92t, A.A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06323419"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the splitting of the normalizer of a maximal torus in symplectic groups.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1302.20046"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01302.20046}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002176"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Izv. Math. 78, No. 3, 443-458 (2014); translation from Izv. Ross. Akad. Nauk, Ser. Mat. 78, No. 3, 19-34 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bier.agnieszka"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bier, Agnieszka}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06318834"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commutators and powers of infinite unitriangular matrices.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1301.20038"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01301.20038}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear Algebra Appl. 457, 162-178 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15A24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15A24}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15A30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15A30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:prasad.gopal"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Prasad, Gopal}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06315980"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Weakly-split spherical Tits systems in quasi-reductive groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.20038"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.20038}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000300"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Am. J. Math. 136, No. 3, 807-832 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:51E24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 51E24}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:portilla.ricardo"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Portilla, Ricardo}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06315974"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Finite order automorphisms and a parametrization of nilpotent orbits in
\f1\i \ulnone  p\

\f0\i0 \ul -adic Lie algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1306.17003"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01306.17003}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000300"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Am. J. Math. 136, No. 3, 551-598 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B08"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B08}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B45}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:moeglin.colette"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'9cglin, Colette}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06315737"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stable packets of discrete series accessible by twisted endoscopy; their Langlands parameter. (Paquets stables des s\'e9ries discr\'e8tes accessibles par endoscopie tordue; leur param\'e8tre de Langlands.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1298.22019"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01298.22019}}\
Cogdell, James W. (ed.) et al., Automorphic forms and related geometry: assessing the legacy of I. I. Piatetski-Shapiro. Proceedings of the conference, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA, April 23\'9627, 2012. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-0-8218-9394-4/pbk). Contemporary Mathematics 614, 295-336 (2014).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lin.yanan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lin, Yanan}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sun.binyong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sun, Binyong}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tan.shao-bin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tan, Shaobin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06312539"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 MVW-extensions of quaternionic classical groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1300.20056"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01300.20056}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000579"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Z. 277, No. 1-2, 81-89 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:apte.himanee"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Apte, Himanee}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stepanov, Alexei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06310161"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Local-global principle for congruence subgroups of Chevalley groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1302.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01302.20047}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cent. Eur. J. Math. 12, No. 6, 801-812 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:minguez.alberto"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'ednguez, Alberto}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:secherre.vincent"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\'e9cherre, Vincent}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06288362"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Smooth representations modulo
\f1\i \ulnone  \uc0\u8467  
\f0\i0 \ul of
\f1\i \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf3 GL
\fs18 m
\i0\fs24 (
\i D
\i0 )
\i \cf2  
\f0\i0 \ul . (Repr\'e9sentations lisses modulo
\f1\i \ulnone  \uc0\u8467  
\f0\i0 \ul de
\f1\i \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 GL
\fs18 m
\i0\fs24 (
\i D
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .)}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1293.22005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01293.22005}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000411"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Duke Math. J. 163, No. 4, 795-885 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bashkirov.evgenii-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bashkirov, Evgenii L.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06284596"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear groups of degree 4 over a quaternion division ring that contain the special unitary group of a skew-Hermitian form with maximal Witt index.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1295.20052"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01295.20052}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 42, No. 2, 704-728 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:slowik.roksana"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\uc0\u322 owik, R.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06284552"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Verbal subgroups of
\f1\i \ulnone  T
\fs18 r
\i0\fs24 (
\f2 \uc0\u8734 
\f1 ,
\i K
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1295.20051"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01295.20051}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 42, No. 1, 73-80 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F14"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F14}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:miyauchi.michitaka"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Miyauchi, Michitaka}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06283198"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Whittaker functions associated to newforms for
\f1\i \ulnone \
GL
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 )
\f0 \ul  over
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic fields.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1286.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01286.22014}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000507"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Math. Soc. Japan 66, No. 1, 17-24 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:levy.jason-k%7Clevy.jason-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Levy, Jason}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06277556"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rationality and the Jordan-Gatti-Viniberghi decomposition.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1294.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01294.20058}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000384"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can. Math. Bull. 57, No. 1, 97-104 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L24}}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:reeder.mark"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Reeder, Mark}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:yu.jiu-kang"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Yu, Jiu-Kang}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06269402"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Epipelagic representations and invariant theory.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1284.22011"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01284.22011}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001206"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Am. Math. Soc. 27, No. 2, 437-477 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11S37"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11S37}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:adam.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Adam, Michael}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06265499"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the distribution of eigenspaces in classical groups over finite rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1292.20076"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01292.20076}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear Algebra Appl. 443, 50-65 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20P05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15B33"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15B33}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nuzhin.ya-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nuzhin, Ya.N.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06380790"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lie rings defined by the root system and family of additive subgroups of the initial ring.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06380790"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a006380790}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00004210"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Steklov Inst. Math. 283, Suppl. 1, S119-S125 (2013); translation from Tr. Inst. Mat. Mekh. (Ekaterinburg) 18, No. 3, 195-200 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ban.dubravka"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ban, Dubravka}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:jantzen.chris"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jantzen, Chris}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06374852"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Langlands quotient theorem for finite central extensions of
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1304.22019"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01304.22019}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001578"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Glas. Mat., III. Ser. 48, No. 2, 313-334 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:yanchevskii.vyacheslav-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Yanchevskii, V.I.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06347693"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Reduced Whitehead groups and the conjugacy problem for special unitary groups of anisotropic Hermitian forms.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.19001}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Math. Sci., New York 192, No. 2, 250-262 (2013); translation from Zap. Nauchn. Sem. POMI 400, 222-245 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B37"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B37}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16W10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16W10}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mezo.paul"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mezo, Paul}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06304970"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Character identities in the twisted endoscopy of real reductive groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1293.22004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01293.22004}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000584"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mem. Am. Math. Soc. 1042, iii-v, 94 p. (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E45}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:aoun.richard"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Aoun, Richard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06284540"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transience of algebraic varieties in linear groups \'96 applications to generic Zariski density. (Transience des vari\'e9t\'e9s alg\'e9briques dans les groupes lin\'e9aires \'96 applications \'e0 la g\'e9n\'e9ricit\'e9 de la notion de densit\'e9 Zariski.)}} 
\i (English. French summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.20055"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.20055}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000311"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ann. Inst. Fourier 63, No. 5, 2049-2080 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20P05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:60G50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60G50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:60B15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B15}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:you.hong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 You, Hong}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zhou.xuemei"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhou, Xuemei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06272112"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The structure of quadratic groups over commutative rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1294.20064"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01294.20064}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00006886"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sci. China, Math. 56, No. 11, 2261-2272 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:liu.yifeng"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Liu, Yifeng}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sun.binyong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sun, Binyong}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06271946"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Uniqueness of Fourier-Jacobi models: the Archimedean case.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1286.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01286.22012}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000492"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Funct. Anal. 265, No. 12, 3325-3344 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F70}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lust.jaime"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lust, Jaime}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06266187"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Depth-zero supercuspidal
\f1\i \ulnone  L
\f0\i0 \ul -packets for inner forms of
\f1\i \ulnone \
GSp
\i0\fs18 4
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1284.22010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01284.22010}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 389, 23-60 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11S37"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11S37}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F70}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hazrat.roozbeh"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hazrat, Roozbeh}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vavilov.nikolai-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, Nikolai}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zhang.zuhong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhang, Zuhong}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06265491"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Relative commutator calculus in Chevalley groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1292.20053"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01292.20053}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 385, 262-293 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B14"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B14}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sobaje.paul"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sobaje, Paul}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06265479"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On exponentiation and infinitesimal one-parameter subgroups of reductive groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1292.20051"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01292.20051}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 385, 14-26 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B45}}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bandman.tatiana-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bandman, Tatiana}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kunyavskii.boris-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kunyavski\uc0\u301 , Boris}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06264371"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Criteria for equidistribution of solutions of word equations on
\f1\i \ulnone \
SL
\i0 (2)
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1292.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01292.20049}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 382, 282-302 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20D06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20D06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20P05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20D60"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20D60}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E57"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E57}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14G15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gourevitch.dmitry"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gourevitch, Dmitry}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sahi.siddhartha"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sahi, Siddhartha}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06255258"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Intertwining operators between line bundles on Grassmannians.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1283.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01283.22013}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002074"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Lie Theory 23, No. 4, 1191-1200 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tuan.ngo-dac"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tuan, Ngo Dac}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06250166"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Counting of
\f1\i \ulnone  G
\f0\i0 \ul -shtukas: the elliptic part. (Comptage des
\f1\i \ulnone \
G
\f0\i0 \ul -chtoucas: la partie elliptique.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1283.22015"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01283.22015}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000393"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Compos. Math. 149, No. 12, 2169-2183 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E55}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:touze.antoine"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Touz\'e9, Antoine}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06241813"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ringel duality and derivatives of non-additive functors.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1284.18034"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01284.18034}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 217, No. 9, 1642-1673 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18G55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18G55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rapinchuk.igor-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rapinchuk, Igor A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06226682"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On abstract representations of the groups of rational points of algebraic groups and their deformations.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1285.20046"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01285.20046}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00005004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Number Theory 7, No. 7, 1685-1723 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:garibaldi.skip"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Garibaldi, Skip}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rapinchuk.andrei-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rapinchuk, Andrei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06226665"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Weakly commensurable
\f1\i \ulnone \
S
\f0\i0 \ul -arithmetic subgroups in almost simple algebraic groups of types B and C.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1285.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01285.20045}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00005004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Number Theory 7, No. 5, 1147-1178 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E57"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E57}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kragh.thomas"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kragh, Thomas}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06222388"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Orientations on 2-vector bundles and determinant gerbes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1284.19010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01284.19010}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000572"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Scand. 113, No. 1, 63-82 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19L41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19L41}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:55R65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 55R65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18D10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18D10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chernousov.vladimir-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chernousov, Vladimir}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:elduque.alberto"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Elduque, Alberto}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:knus.max-albert"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Knus, Max-Albert}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06220348"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebraic groups of type
\f1\i \ulnone  D
\i0\fs18 4
\f0\fs24 \ul , triality, and composition algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1285.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01285.20047}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Doc. Math., J. DMV 18, 413-468 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G41}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E36}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17A75"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17A75}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:yu.xiaoxiang"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Yu, Xiaoxiang}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wang.dengyin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wang, Dengyin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06220110"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Norm correspondence on
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic classical groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1305.22026"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01305.22026}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 378, 22-44 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hutchinson.kevin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hutchinson, Kevin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tao.liqun"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tao, Liqun}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06215996"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Milnor-Witt
\f1\i \ulnone \
K
\f0\i0 \ul -theory and tensor powers of the augmentation ideal of
\f1\i \ulnone  \uc0\u8484 
\i0 [
\i F
\i0\fs18 \'d7
\fs24  ]
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1282.19006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01282.19006}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001950"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Colloq. 20, No. 3, 515-522 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G99"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:pettet.alexandra"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pettet, Alexandra}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:souto.juan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Souto, Juan}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06213060"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commuting tuples in reductive groups and their maximal compact subgroups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1306.55007"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01306.55007}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002395"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geom. Topol. 17, No. 5, 2513-2593 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:55P99"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 55P99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ardakov.konstantin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ardakov, Konstantin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wadsley.simon-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wadsley, Simon}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06203673"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On irreducible representations of compact
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic analytic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1273.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01273.22014}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002531"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ann. Math. (2) 178, No. 2, 453-557 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zainalov.b-r"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zainalov, B.R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:suslin.andrei-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Suslin, A.A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06200345"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Homological stabilization for Dedekind rings of the arithmetic type.}} 
\i (English. Ukrainian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1278.19004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01278.19004}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000214"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ukr. Math. J. 64, No. 11, 1658-1671 (2013); translation from Ukr. Mat. Zh. 64, No. 11, 1464-1476 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19D50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19D50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kulikova.e-n%7Ckulikova.e-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kulikova, E.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stavrova.a-k%7Cstavrova.anastasia"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stavrova, A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06198104"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Centralizer of the elementary subgroup of an isotropic reductive group.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1280.20050"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01280.20050}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001807"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vestn. St. Petersbg. Univ., Math. 46, No. 1, 22-28 (2013); translation from Vestn. St-Peterbg. Univ., Ser. I, Mat. Mekh. Astron. 2013, No. 1, 35-43 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kanel-belov.alexei"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kanel-Belov, A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kunyavskii.boris-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kunyavskii, B.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:plotkin.eugene-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Plotkin, E.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06198102"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Word equations in simple groups and polynomial equations in simple algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1300.20033"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01300.20033}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001807"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vestn. St. Petersbg. Univ., Math. 46, No. 1, 3-13 (2013) and Vestn. St-Peterbg. Univ., Ser. I, Mat. Mekh. Astron. 2013, No. 1, 10-24 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20D60"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20D60}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20D06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20D06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16K20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16K20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B20}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bardakov.valeriy-g%7Cbardakov.valery-g%7Cbardakov.valerij-g"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bardakov, V.G.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:simonov.a-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Simonov, A.A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06197548"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rings and groups of matrices with a nonstandard product.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1276.15010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01276.15010}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000709"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sib. Math. J. 54, No. 3, 393-405 (2013); translation from Sib. Mat. Zh. 54, No. 3, 504-519 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15A30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15A30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16S50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16S50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:salehi-golsefidy.alireza"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Salehi Golsefidy, Alireza}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sarnak.peter-c"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sarnak, Peter}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06195227"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The affine sieve.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1283.20055"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01283.20055}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001206"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Am. Math. Soc. 26, No. 4, 1085-1105 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11N35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11N35}}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vavilov.nikolai-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, N.A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stepanov, A.V.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06189849"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear groups over general rings. I: Generalities.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1278.20066"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01278.20066}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Math. Sci., New York 188, No. 5, 490-550 (2013); translation from Zap. Nauchn. Semin. POMI 394, 33-139 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20%2d02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:boylan.hatice"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Boylan, Hatice}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:skoruppa.nils-peter"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Skoruppa, Nils-Peter}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06182878"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear characters of
\f1\i \ulnone  SL
\i0\fs18 2 
\f0\fs24 \ul over Dedekind domains.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1281.20050"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01281.20050}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 373, 120-129 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F41}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:touze.antoine"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Touz\'e9, A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06182274"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A construction of the universal classes for algebraic groups with the twisting spectral sequence.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1281.20055"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01281.20055}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 18, No. 2, 539-556 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18G10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:yu.weibo"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Yu, Weibo}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06179842"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stability for odd unitary
\f1\i \ulnone  K
\i0\fs18 1\

\f0\fs24 \ul under the
\f1\i \ulnone  \uc0\u55349 \u57068 
\f0\i0 \ul -stable range condition.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1275.19006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01275.19006}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 217, No. 5, 886-891 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G38"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G38}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mohammadi.amir"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mohammadi, Amir}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wortman.kevin-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wortman, Kevin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06171530"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On presentations of integer polynomial points of simple groups over number fields.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1275.20054"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01275.20054}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000434"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geom. Dedicata 164, 131-137 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11R04"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11R04}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sinchuk.s-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sinchuk, S.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06170866"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Injective stability for unitary
\f1\i \ulnone  K
\i0\fs18 1
\f0\fs24 \ul . Revisited.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1270.19003"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01270.19003}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00006558"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. K-Theory 11, No. 2, 233-242 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B99"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B99}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:slowik.roksana"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\uc0\u322 owik, R.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06168623"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Free and non-free subgroups of the group
\f1\i \ulnone \
UT
\i0 (
\f2 \uc0\u8734 
\f1 ,
\i \uc0\u8484 
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1275.20059"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01275.20059}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 41, No. 4, 1350-1364 (2013); corrigendum 42, No. 4, 1854 (2014).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hazrat.roozbeh"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hazrat, Roozbeh}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hoobler.raymond-t"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hoobler, Raymond T.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06168618"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf2 K
\f0\i0 \ul -theory of Azumaya algebras over schemes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1300.14023"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01300.14023}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 41, No. 4, 1268-1277 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14F22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14F22}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16K20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16K20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E81"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E81}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:berman.mark-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Berman, Mark N.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:derakhshan.jamshid"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Derakhshan, Jamshid}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:onn.uri"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Onn, Uri}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:paajanen.pirita-maria"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Paajanen, Pirita}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06160947"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Uniform cell decomposition with applications to Chevalley groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1275.20053"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01275.20053}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000500"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Lond. Math. Soc., II. Ser. 87, No. 2, 586-606 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11M41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11M41}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:03C10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 03C10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:dasgupta.bhanumati"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dasgupta, Bhanumati}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06156474"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hermitian Morita theory and unitary groups of hyperbolic quadratic modules over maximal orders in central simple algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1270.19006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01270.19006}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 41, No. 2, 405-434 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G38"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G38}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:suciu.alexander-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Suciu, Alexander I.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:yang.yaping"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Yang, Yaping}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zhao.gufang"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhao, Gufang}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06155432"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Intersections of translated algebraic subtori.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1278.20062"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01278.20062}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 217, No. 3, 481-494 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L35}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:schwarz.gerald-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schwarz, Gerald W.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06155147"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vector fields and Luna strata.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1278.20061"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01278.20061}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 217, No. 1, 54-58 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L24}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mimura.masato"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mimura, Masato}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06146597"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fixed point property for universal lattice on Schatten classes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1291.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01291.20045}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000623"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 141, No. 1, 65-81 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:43A15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 43A15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20J06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20J06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22D12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22D12}}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ciubotaru.dan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ciubotaru, Dan M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:trapa.peter-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Trapa, Peter E.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06139340"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Characters of Springer representations on elliptic conjugacy classes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1260.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01260.22012}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000411"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Duke Math. J. 162, No. 2, 201-223 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mcninch.george-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 McNinch, George}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06134595"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the descent of Levi factors.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1264.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01264.20044}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000336"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Arch. Math. 100, No. 1, 7-24 (2013).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zabradi.gergely"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Z\'e1br\'e1di, Gergely}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06221737"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Generalized Robba rings. With an appendix by Peter Schneider.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1277.22008"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01277.22008}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000115"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Isr. J. Math. 191, Part B, 817-887 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E35}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:luzgarev.a-yu"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Luzgarev, A.Yu.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stavrova.a-k"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stavrova, A.K.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06208281"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Elementary subgroup of an isotropic reductive group is perfect.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1283.20054"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01283.20054}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001977"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 St. Petersbg. Math. J. 23, No. 5, 881-890 (2012); translation from Algebra Anal. 23, No. 5, 140-154 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vavilov.nikolai-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, N.A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sinchuk.s-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sinchuk, S.S.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06208270"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Parabolic factorizations of split classical groups.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1283.20057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01283.20057}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001977"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 St. Petersbg. Math. J. 23, No. 4, 637-657 (2012); translation from Algebra Anal. 23, No. 4, 1-30 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B14"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B14}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lubotzky.alexander"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lubotzky, Alexander}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:meiri.chen"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Meiri, Chen}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06195220"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sieve methods in group theory. I: Powers in linear groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1283.20075"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01283.20075}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001206"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Am. Math. Soc. 25, No. 4, 1119-1148 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20P05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11N36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11N36}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:brubaker.ben"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Brubaker, Ben}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bump.daniel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bump, Daniel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chinta.gautam"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chinta, Gautam}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:friedberg.solomon"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Friedberg, Solomon}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gunnells.paul-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gunnells, Paul E.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06153594"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Metaplectic ice.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1264.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01264.22014}}\
Bump, Daniel (ed.) et al., Multiple Dirichlet series,
\f1\i \
L
\f0\i0 -functions and automorphic forms. New York, NY: Birkh\'e4user (ISBN 978-0-8176-8333-7/hbk; 978-0-8176-8334-4/ebook). Progress in Mathematics 300, 65-92 (2012).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11M32"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11M32}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hoffmann.werner.1"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hoffmann, Werner}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06148148"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fourier transforms of weighted orbital integrals on the real symplectic group of rank two.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1264.22008"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01264.22008}}\
Hamahata, Yoshinori (ed.) et al., Geometry and analysis of automorphic forms of several variables. Proceedings of the international symposium in honor of Takayuki Oda on the occasion of his 60th birthday, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan, September 14\'9617, 2009. Hackensack, NJ: World Scientific (ISBN 978-981-4355-59-9/hbk; 978-981-4355-60-5/ebook). Series on Number Theory and its Applications 7, 160-195 (2012).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F70}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stepanov, Alexei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06138243"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Subring subgroups in Chevalley groups with doubly laced root systems.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1267.20073"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01267.20073}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 362, 12-29 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ponomarev.konstantin-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ponomarev, K.N.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06138178"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Centroids of algebraic groups.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1267.20063"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01267.20063}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000295"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Logic 51, No. 4, 333-350 (2012); translation from Algebra Logika 51, No. 4, 496-523 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:masuoka.akira"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Masuoka, Akira}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06136954"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Harish-Chandra pairs for algebraic affine supergroup schemes over an arbitrary field.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1284.14057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01284.14057}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 17, No. 4, 1085-1121 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wendt.matthias"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wendt, Matthias}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06132796"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On homotopy invariance for homology of rank two groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1267.20062"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01267.20062}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 216, No. 10, 2291-2301 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19D55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19D55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19C09"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19C09}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:55N35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 55N35}}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:anderson.daniel-d"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Anderson, D.D.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:juett.j-r"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Juett, J.R.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06132776"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stable range and almost stable range.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1261.19002"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01261.19002}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 216, No. 10, 2094-2097 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:haines.thomas-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Haines, Thomas J.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kapovich.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kapovich, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:millson.john-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Millson, John J.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06125719"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ideal triangles in Euclidean buildings and branching to Levi subgroups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1272.20033"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01272.20033}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 361, 41-78 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ignatyev.mikhail-v"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ignatyev, Mikhail V.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06121596"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Combinatorics of
\f1\i \ulnone \
B
\f0\i0 \ul -orbits and Bruhat-Chevalley order on involutions.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1272.20050"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01272.20050}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 17, No. 3, 747-780 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B08"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B08}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:05E10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 05E10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14M15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14M15}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nasybullov.t-r"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nasybullov, T.R.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06121537"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Twisted conjugacy classes in general and special linear groups.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1264.20046"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01264.20046}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000295"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Logic 51, No. 3, 220-231 (2012); translation from Algebra Logika 51, No. 3, 331-346 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:55M20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 55M20}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bardini.carla"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bardini, Carla}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06121259"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Standardness and standard automorphisms of Chevalley groups. I: The case of rank at least two.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1264.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01264.20049}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000953"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chin. Ann. Math., Ser. B 33, No. 5, 783-800 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E36}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:goffeng.magnus"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Goffeng, Magnus}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06119063"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A remark on twists and the notion of torsion-free discrete quantum groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1276.46058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01276.46058}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002425"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebr. Represent. Theory 15, No. 5, 817-834 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:46L65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 46L65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16T20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16T20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B37"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B37}}\
\
\
\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gandini.giovanni"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gandini, Giovanni}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06114747"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bounding the homological finiteness length.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1272.20052"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01272.20052}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000369"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bull. Lond. Math. Soc. 44, No. 6, 1209-1214 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20J05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20J05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:57M07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 57M07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sirola.boris"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \'8airola, Boris}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06112990"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On centralisers and normalisers for groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1269.20043"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01269.20043}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000051"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bull. Aust. Math. Soc. 86, No. 3, 481-494 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:smolensky.a-v"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Smolensky, A.V.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sury.balasubramanian"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sury, Balasubramanian}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vavilov.nikolai-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, Nikolai A.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06107763"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gauss decomposition for Chevalley groups, revisited.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1261.20050"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01261.20050}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00007343"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. J. Group Theory 1, No. 1, 3-16 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15A23"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15A23}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:you.hong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 You, Hong}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zhou.xuemei"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhou, Xuemei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06104535"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Subnormal structure of classical groups over Banach algebra.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1261.20056"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01261.20056}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 357, 222-230 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lawther.r-e%7Clawther.ray%7Clawther.ross"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lawther, R.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06103771"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Elements in reductive algebraic groups with Abelian connected centralizers.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1261.20048"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01261.20048}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 359, 1-34 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ou.shikun"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ou, Shikun}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06102989"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bijective maps on standard Borel subgroup of symplectic group preserving commutators.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1261.20054"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01261.20054}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00004913"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Front. Math. China 7, No. 3, 497-512 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E36}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15A86"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15A86}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:blondel.corinne"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Blondel, Corinne}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06101189"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Weil representation and
\f1\i \ulnone \
\uc0\u946 
\f0\i0 \ul -extensions. (Repr\'e9sentation de Weil et
\f1\i \ulnone \
\uc0\u946 
\f0\i0 \ul -extensions.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1252.22009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01252.22009}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000311"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ann. Inst. Fourier 62, No. 4, 1319-1366 (2012); erratum in ibid. 62, No. 6, 2385-2385 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bunina.e-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bunina, E.I.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06099330"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Automorphisms of Chevalley groups of different types over commutative rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1260.20071"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01260.20071}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 355, No. 1, 154-170 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E36}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:capdeboscq.inna"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Capdeboscq, Inna}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:thomas.anne"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Thomas, Anne}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06094124"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lattices in complete rank 2 Kac-Moody groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1270.20055"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01270.20055}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 216, No. 6, 1348-1371 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G44"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G44}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kohl.ralf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 K\'f6hl, Ralf}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06087792"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the geometry of global function fields, the Riemann-Roch theorem, and finiteness properties of
\f1\i \ulnone  S
\f0\i0 \ul -arithmetic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1270.11056"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01270.11056}}\
Narasimha Sastry, N. S. (ed.), Buildings, finite geometries and groups. Proceedings of a satellite conference of the international congress of mathematicians (ICM), Hyderabad, India, 2010, held in Bangalore, India, August 29\'9631, 2010. Berlin: Springer (ISBN 978-1-4614-0708-9/hbk; 978-1-4614-0709-6/ebook). Springer Proceedings in Mathematics 10, 49-80 (2012).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F75"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F75}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:51E24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 51E24}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vigneras.marie-france"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vign\'e9ras, Marie-France}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06085965"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Torsion admissible
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic representations. (Repr\'e9sentations
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adiques de torsion admissibles.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1251.22009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01251.22009}}\
Goldfeld, Dorian (ed.) et al., Number theory, analysis and geometry. In memory of Serge Lang. Berlin: Springer (ISBN 978-1-4614-1259-5/hbk; 978-1-4614-1260-1/ebook). 639-646 (2012).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E35}}\
\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:donagi.ron-y"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Donagi, R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:pantev.tony-g"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pantev, T.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06084025"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Langlands duality for Hitchin systems.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1263.53078"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01263.53078}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000465"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Invent. Math. 189, No. 3, 653-735 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:53D18"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53D18}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14D24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14D24}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:37J99"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37J99}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:slowik.roksana"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\uc0\u322 owik, Roksana}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06078350"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On one property of normal subgroups of
\f1\i \ulnone \
UT
\f2\i0\fs18 \uc0\u8734 
\f1\fs24 (
\i R
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1256.20050"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01256.20050}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear Algebra Appl. 437, No. 9, 2300-2307 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F14"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F14}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:breuillard.emmanuel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Breuillard, Emmanuel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:green.ben"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Green, Ben}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06074630"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Approximate groups. III: The unitary case.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1281.20061"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01281.20061}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002020"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Turk. J. Math. 36, No. 2, 199-215 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11B30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11B30}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:schwarz.gerald-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schwarz, Gerald W.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06069849"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear maps preserving orbits.}} 
\i (English. French summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1255.14040"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01255.14040}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000311"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ann. Inst. Fourier 62, No. 2, 667-706 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E46"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E46}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:secherre.vincent"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\'e9cherre, Vincent}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stevens.shaun"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stevens, Shaun}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06062744"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Smooth representations of
\f1\i \ulnone \
GL
\fs18 m
\i0\fs24 (
\i D
\i0 )
\f0 \ul . VI: Semisimple types.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1246.22023"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01246.22023}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001388"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. Math. Res. Not. 2012, No. 13, 2994-3039 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:you.hong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 You, Hong}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06060928"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Subgroups of classical groups normalized by relative elementary groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1253.20054"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01253.20054}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 216, No. 5, 1040-1051 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hiranouchi.toshiro"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hiranouchi, Toshiro}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06051467"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Milnor
\f1\i \ulnone  K
\f0\i0 \ul -groups modulo
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\fs18 n\

\f0\i0\fs24 \ul of a complete discrete valuation field.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1244.19002"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01244.19002}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000627"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Japan Acad., Ser. A 88, No. 4, 59-61 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19D45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19D45}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:parimala.raman"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Parimala, R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tignol.jean-pierre"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tignol, J.-P.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:weiss.richard-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Weiss, R.M.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06050323"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Kneser-Tits conjecture for groups with Tits-index \ulnone E
\f1\fs18 8,266\

\f0\fs24 \ul over an arbitrary field.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1251.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01251.20045}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 17, No. 1, 209-231 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E72"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E72}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E81"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E81}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:pecher.tobias"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pecher, T.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06050318"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Classification of skew multiplicity-free modules.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1257.20048"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01257.20048}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 17, No. 1, 233-257 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E46"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E46}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:balmer.paul"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Balmer, Paul}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:calmes.baptiste"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Calm\'e8s, Baptiste}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06049611"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bases of total Witt groups and Lax-similitude.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1247.19005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01247.19005}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003089"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra Appl. 11, No. 3, 1250045, 24 p. (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E81"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E81}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18E30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18E30}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hambleton.ian"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hambleton, Ian}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kjaer-pedersen.erik"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pedersen, Erik K.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rosenthal.david"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rosenthal, David}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06048151"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Assembly maps for group extensions in
\f1\i \ulnone  K
\f0\i0 \ul -theory and
\f1\i \ulnone  L
\f0\i0 \ul -theory with twisted coeffcients.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1247.19006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01247.19006}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003646"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pure Appl. Math. Q. 8, No. 1, 175-198 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G24}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19D50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19D50}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chao.kuok-fai"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chao, Kuok Fai}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:plymen.roger-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Plymen, Roger}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06048030"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geometric structure in the tempered dual of
\f1\i \ulnone \
SL
\i0 (4)
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1243.22015"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01243.22015}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000369"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bull. Lond. Math. Soc. 44, No. 3, 460-468 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:jacobson.jeremy"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jacobson, Jeremy}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06046977"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Finiteness theorems for the shifted Witt and higher Grothendieck-Witt groups of arithmetic schemes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1247.19007"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01247.19007}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 351, No. 1, 254-278 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G38"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G38}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:can.mahir-bilen"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can, Mahir Bilen}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06046975"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Irreducible representations of semisimple algebraic groups and supersolvable lattices.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1251.20041"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01251.20041}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 351, No. 1, 235-250 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20M32"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20M32}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kassel.fanny"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kassel, Fanny}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06043349"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Deformation of proper actions on reductive homogeneous spaces.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1248.22005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01248.22005}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000554"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Ann. 353, No. 2, 599-632 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:57S30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 57S30}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hadad.uzy"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hadad, Uzy}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06042662"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On Kazhdan constants of finite index subgroups in
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 SL
\i\fs18 n
\i0\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u8484 
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1251.20046"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01251.20046}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001379"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. J. Algebra Comput. 22, No. 3, 1250026, 18 p. (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:qi.zhi"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Qi, Zhi}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06042412"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Morita\'92s duality for split reductive groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1271.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01271.22017}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000512"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Number Theory 132, No. 8, 1664-1685 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sharma.rajendra-kumar%7Csharma.raj-kumar%7Csharma.ravi-kant%7Csharma.ravinder-kumar%7Csharma.ram-krishnan%7Csharma.ram-krishan%7Csharma.rishi-kumar%7Csharma.rakesh-kumar%7Csharma.rajan-k%7Csharma.rajneesh-k"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sharma, R.K.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:yadav.pooja"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Yadav, Pooja}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kanwar.pramod"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kanwar, Pramod}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06040366"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lie regular generators of general linear groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1248.20052"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01248.20052}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 40, No. 4, 1304-1315 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:carbone.lisa-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carbone, Lisa}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:naqvi.yusra"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Naqvi, Yusra}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06039240"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hyperbolic Kac-Moody Weyl groups, billiard tables and actions of lattices on buildings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1250.20039"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01250.20039}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 216, No. 3, 495-518 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G44"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G44}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:51E24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 51E24}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:broussous.paul"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Broussous, P.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:secherre.vincent"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\'e9cherre, V.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stevens.shaun"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stevens, S.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06039003"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Smooth representations of
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 GL
\i\fs18 m
\i0\fs24 (
\i D
\i0 )
\f0 \ul . V: Endo-classes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1280.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01280.22018}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Doc. Math., J. DMV 17, 23-77 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:xue.ting"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Xue, Ting}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06037572"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On unipotent and nilpotent pieces for classical groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1250.20036"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01250.20036}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 349, No. 1, 165-184 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B08"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B08}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:beazley.e-t"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Beazley, E.T.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06037566"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Affine Deligne-Lusztig varieties associated to additive affine Weyl group elements.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1257.20042"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01257.20042}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 349, No. 1, 63-79 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14M15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14M15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mason.a-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mason, A.W.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sury.balasubramanian"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sury, B.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06032972"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Subgroups of algebraic groups which are clopen in the
\f1\i \ulnone \
S
\f0\i0 \ul -congruence topology.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1248.20051"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01248.20051}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002415"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Group Theory 15, No. 1, 47-55 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H05}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:dat.jean-francois"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dat, J.-F.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06029036"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf2 \uc0\u8467 
\f0\i0 \ul -integral nonabelian Lubin-Tate theory. (Th\'e9orie de Lubin-Tate non ab\'e9lienne
\f1\i \ulnone \
\uc0\u8467 
\f0\i0 \ul -enti\'e8re.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1260.11070"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01260.11070}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000411"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Duke Math. J. 161, No. 6, 951-1010 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11S37"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11S37}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14G35}}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:dat.jean-francois"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dat, J.-F.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vigneras.marie-france"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vign\'e9ras, M.-F.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06028785"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A simple case of the Jacquet-Langlands correspondence modulo
\f1\i \ulnone \
\uc0\u8467 
\f0\i0 \ul . (Un cas simple de correspondance de Jacquet-Langlands modulo
\f1\i \ulnone  \uc0\u8467 \

\f0\i0 \ul (French).)}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1241.22020"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01241.22020}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000628"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. (3) 104, No. 4, 690-727 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11S37"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11S37}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:slowik.roksana"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 S\uc0\u322 owik, Roksana}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06025855"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The lower central series of subgroups of the Vershik-Kerov group.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1247.20059"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01247.20059}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear Algebra Appl. 436, No. 7, 2299-2310 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F14"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F14}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:fallah-moghaddam.r"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fallah-Moghaddam, R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mahdavi-hezavehi.m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mahdavi-Hezavehi, M.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06023015"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Locally finite conditions on maximal subgroups of
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 GL
\i\fs18 n
\i0\fs24 (
\i D
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1247.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01247.20058}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001950"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Colloq. 19, No. 1, 73-86 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E28"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E28}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16K20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16K20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:colarusso.mark"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Colarusso, Mark}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:evens.sam"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Evens, Sam}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06021944"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf2 K
\f0\i0 \ul -orbits on the flag variety and strongly regular nilpotent matrices.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1258.14056"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01258.14056}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002077"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sel. Math., New Ser. 18, No. 1, 159-177 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14M15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14M15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:53D17"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53D17}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:maktouf.khemais"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Maktouf, Khemais}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05998260"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Character formula and Plancherel formula for solvable almost connected Lie groups over a
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic field. (La formule du caract\'e8re et la formule de Plancherel pour les groupes de Lie r\'e9solubles presque connexes sur un corps
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\f0\i0 \ul -adique.)}} 
\i (French)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1232.22008"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01232.22008}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000492"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Funct. Anal. 262, No. 2, 500-536 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E35}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hu.yongquan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hu, Yongquan}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05995954"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Canonical diagrams and representations modulo
\f1\i \ulnone \
p 
\f0\i0 \ul of
\f1\i \ulnone  GL
\i0\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i F
\i0 )
\f0 \ul . (Diagrammes canoniques et repr\'e9sentations modulo
\f1\i \ulnone  p\

\f0\i0 \ul de
\f1\i \ulnone  GL
\i0\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i F
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .)}} 
\i (French)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1232.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01232.22012}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003022"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Inst. Math. Jussieu 11, No. 1, 67-118 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:varju.peter-p%7Cvarju.peter-pal"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Varj\'fa, P\'e9ter P.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05995804"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Expansion in
\f1\i \ulnone  SL
\fs18 d
\i0\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u55349 \u56490 
\fs18 K
\i0\fs24 /
\i I
\i0 )
\f0 \ul ,
\f1\i \ulnone I 
\f0\i0 \ul square-free.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1269.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01269.20044}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002579"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Eur. Math. Soc. (JEMS) 14, No. 1, 273-305 (2012).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:05C25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 05C25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11B30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11B30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11B75"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11B75}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stepanov, Alexei}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vavilov.nikolai-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, Nikolai}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06108380"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the length of commutators in Chevalley groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1262.20054"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01262.20054}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000115"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Isr. J. Math. 185, 253-276 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B14"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B14}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:moeglin.colette"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'9cglin, Colette}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06103538"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A conjecture of Adams for the Howe correspondence and the Kudla filtration. (Conjecture d\'92Adams pour la correspondance de Howe et filtration de Kudla.)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1259.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01259.22014}}\
Cogdell, James (ed.) et al., Arithmetic geometry and automorphic forms. Festschrift dedicated to Stephen Kudla on the occasion of his 60th birthday. Somerville, MA: International Press; Beijing: Higher Education Press (ISBN 978-1-57146-229-9/pbk). Advanced Lectures in Mathematics (ALM) 19, 445-503 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gallardo.luis-h"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gallardo, Luis H.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rahavandrainy.olivier"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rahavandrainy, Olivier}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06098564"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On splitting perfect polynomials over
\f1\i \ulnone  
\f3\i0 \uc0\u55349 \u56637 
\f1\i\fs18 pp
\f0\i0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1254.11113"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01254.11113}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00004980"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. Electron. J. Algebra 9, 85-102, electronic only (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T06}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:breuillard.emmanuel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Breuillard, Emmanuel}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06077155"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Heights on
\f1\i \ulnone  SL
\i0\fs18 2 
\f0\fs24 \ul and free subgroups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1261.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01261.20047}}\
Farb, Benson (ed.) et al., Geometry, rigidity, and group actions. Selected papers based on the presentations at the conference in honor of the 60th birthday of Robert J. Zimmer, Chicago, IL, USA, September 2007. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press (ISBN 978-0-226-23788-6/hbk). Chicago Lectures in Mathematics, 455-493 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11G50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11G50}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wortman.kevin-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wortman, Kevin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06017879"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Quasi-isometries of rank one
\f1\i \ulnone  S
\f0\i0 \ul -arithmetic lattices.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1246.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01246.22012}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00004953"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Groups Geom. Dyn. 5, No. 4, 787-803 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:netai.i-v"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Netai, I.V.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06016886"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Parabolically connected subgroups.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1246.20041"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01246.20041}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002175"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sb. Math. 202, No. 8, 1169-1182 (2011); translation from Mat. Sb. 202, No. 8, 81-94 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L35}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kassabov.martin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kassabov, Martin}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06010066"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Subspace arrangements and property T.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1244.20041"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01244.20041}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00004953"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Groups Geom. Dyn. 5, No. 2, 445-477 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22D10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22D10}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:khurana.dinesh"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Khurana, Dinesh}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lam.tsit-yuen"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lam, T.Y.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wang.zhou"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wang, Zhou}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06009320"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rings of square stable range one.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1237.19004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01237.19004}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 338, No. 1, 122-143 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B10}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:seress.akos"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Seress, \'c1kos}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wong.tsai-lien"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wong, Tsai-Lien}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zhu.xuding"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhu, Xuding}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06006220"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Distinguishing labeling of the actions of almost simple groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1249.20002"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01249.20002}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000919"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Combinatorica 31, No. 4, 489-506 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20B25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:05C25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 05C25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:05E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 05E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:05E18"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 05E18}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20D06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20D06}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:qi.zhi"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Qi, Zhi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:yang.chang"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Yang, Chang}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06004993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Morita\'92s theory for the symplectic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1235.22022"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01235.22022}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003335"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. J. Number Theory 7, No. 8, 2115-2137 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sirola.boris"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \'8airola, B.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06004453"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Normalizers and self-normalizing subgroups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1241.20055"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01241.20055}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001578"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Glas. Mat., III. Ser. 46, No. 2, 385-414 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:borovoi.mikhail-v"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Borovoi, Mikhail}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:reichstein.zinovy"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Reichstein, Zinovy}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:06000309"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Toric-friendly groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1239.20052"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01239.20052}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00005004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Algebra Number Theory 5, No. 3, 361-378 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L30}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bate.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bate, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:martin.benjamin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Martin, Benjamin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tange.rudolf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tange, Rudolf}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05996701"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Complete reducibility and conjugacy classes of tuples in algebraic groups and Lie algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1242.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01242.20058}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000579"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Z. 269, No. 3-4, 809-832 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L24}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lusztig.george"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lusztig, G.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05995218"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Study of antiorbital complexes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1257.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01257.20047}}\
Adams, Jeffrey (ed.) et al., Representation theory and mathematical physics. Conference in honor of Gregg Zuckerman\'92s 60th birthday, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA, October 24\'9627, 2009. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-0-8218-5246-0/pbk). Contemporary Mathematics 557, 259-287 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:43A30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 43A30}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sirola.boris"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \'8airola, Boris}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05987908"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Normalizers and self-normalizing subgroups. II.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1241.20056"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01241.20056}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cent. Eur. J. Math. 9, No. 6, 1317-1332 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:aoun.richard"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Aoun, Richard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05986341"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Random subgroups of linear groups are free.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1239.20051"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01239.20051}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000411"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Duke Math. J. 160, No. 1, 117-173 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20P05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:60G50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60G50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:60B15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B15}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:helminck.aloysius-g"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Helminck, Aloysius G.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:schwarz.gerald-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schwarz, Gerald W.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05982628"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On generalized Cartan subspaces.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1235.43010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01235.43010}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 16, No. 3, 783-805 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:43A85"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 43A85}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bump.daniel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bump, Daniel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nakasuji.maki"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nakasuji, Maki}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05980889"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Casselman\'92s basis of Iwahori vectors and the Bruhat order.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1230.22009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01230.22009}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000383"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can. J. Math. 63, No. 6, 1238-1253 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:luck.wolfgang"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L\'fcck, Wolfgang}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05971136"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf2 K
\f0\i0 \ul - and
\f1\i \ulnone  L
\f0\i0 \ul -theory of group rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1231.18008"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01231.18008}}\
Bhatia, Rajendra (ed.) et al., Proceedings of the international congress of mathematicians (ICM 2010), Hyderabad, India, August 19\'9627, 2010. Vol. II: Invited lectures. Hackensack, NJ: World Scientific; New Delhi: Hindustan Book Agency (ISBN 978-981-4324-32-8/hbk; 978-81-85931-08-3/hbk; 978-981-4324-30-4/set; 978-981-4324-35-9/ebook). 1071-1098 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18F25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18F25}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gross.benedict-h"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gross, Benedict H.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05969057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Irreducible cuspidal representations with prescribed local behavior.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1228.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01228.22017}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000300"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Am. J. Math. 133, No. 5, 1231-1258 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gallardo.luis-h"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gallardo, Luis H.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rahavandrainy.olivier"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rahavandrainy, Olivier}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05967688"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Unitary perfect polynomials over
\f1\i \ulnone  
\f3\i0 \uc0\u55349 \u56637 
\f1\fs18 4\

\f0\fs24 \ul with less than five prime factors.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1238.11109"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01238.11109}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000423"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Funct. Approximatio, Comment. Math. 45, No. 1, 67-78 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T06}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chatterjee.pralay"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chatterjee, Pralay}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05963451"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Automorphism invariant Cartan subgroups and power maps of disconnected groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1237.20040"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01237.20040}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000579"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Z. 269, No. 1-2, 221-233 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G07}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:breuillard.emmanuel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Breuillard, Emmanuel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:green.ben"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Green, Ben}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05956689"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Approximate groups. II: The solvable linear case.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1275.11022"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01275.11022}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002722"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Q. J. Math. 62, No. 3, 513-521 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11B30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11B30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:moy.allen"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Moy, Allen}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05955511"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Distribution algebras on
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic groups and Lie algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1225.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01225.22017}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000383"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can. J. Math. 63, No. 5, 1137-1160 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E35}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:breuillard.emmanuel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Breuillard, Emmanuel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:green.ben"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Green, Ben}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tao.terence-c"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tao, Terence}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05950685"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Approximate subgroups of linear groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1229.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01229.20045}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001418"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geom. Funct. Anal. 21, No. 4, 774-819 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11B75"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11B75}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chinburg.ted"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chinburg, Ted}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05949217"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Infinite easier Waring constants for commutative rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1222.11118"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01222.11118}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000800"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Topology Appl. 158, No. 14, 1844-1847 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11P05}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bux.kai-uwe"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bux, Kai-Uwe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wortman.kevin-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wortman, Kevin}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05944326"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Connectivity properties of horospheres in Euclidean buildings and applications to finiteness properties of discrete groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1237.20041"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01237.20041}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000465"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Invent. Math. 185, No. 2, 395-419 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22F50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22F50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:arenas-carmona.luis"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Arenas-Carmona, Luis}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05944304"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Projective representations in algebras and cohomology.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1229.20008"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01229.20008}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000336"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Arch. Math. 97, No. 2, 105-113 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20C25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20C25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:12G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 12G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16K20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16K20}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:caprace.pierre-emmanuel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Caprace, Pierre-Emmanuel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:marquis.timothee"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Marquis, Timoth\'e9e}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05942224"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can an anisotropic reductive group admit a Tits system?}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1244.20029"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01244.20029}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003646"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pure Appl. Math. Q. 7, No. 3, 539-557 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:51E24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 51E24}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:abels.herbert"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Abels, H.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:margulis.gregory-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Margulis, G.A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:soifer.grigori-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Soifer, G.A.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05939470"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The linear part of an affine group acting properly discontinuously and leaving a quadratic form invariant.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1228.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01228.22012}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000434"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geom. Dedicata 153, 1-46 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:portilla.ricardo"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Portilla, Ricardo}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05933035"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Parametrizing nilpotent orbits in
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic symmetric spaces.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1228.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01228.22018}}\
Doran, Robert S. (ed.) et al., Harmonic analysis on reductive,
\f1\i \
p
\f0\i0 -adic groups. Proceedings of the AMS special session, San Francisco, CA, USA, January 16, 2010. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-0-8218-4985-9/pbk). Contemporary Mathematics 543, 201-214 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nevins.monica"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nevins, Monica}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05933034"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Patterns in branching rules for irreducible representations of
\f1\i \ulnone \
SL
\i0\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i k
\i0 )
\f0 \ul , for
\f1\i \ulnone  k
\f0\i0 \ul a
\f1\i \ulnone p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic field.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1222.22015"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01222.22015}}\
Doran, Robert S. (ed.) et al., Harmonic analysis on reductive,
\f1\i  p
\f0\i0 -adic groups. Proceedings of the AMS special session, San Francisco, CA, USA, January 16, 2010. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-0-8218-4985-9/pbk). Contemporary Mathematics 543, 185-199 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E35}}\
\
\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:casselman.william-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Casselman, Bill}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05932908"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jacquet modules and the asymptotic behaviour of matrix coefficients.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1222.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01222.22012}}\
Arthur, James (ed.) et al., On certain
\f1\i  L
\f0\i0 -functions. Conference on certain
\f1\i \
L
\f0\i0 -functions in honor of Freydoon Shahidi on the occasion of his 60th birthday, West Lafayette, IN, USA July 23\'9627, 2007. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS); Cambridge, MA: Clay Mathematics Institute (ISBN 978-0-8218-5204-0/pbk). Clay Mathematics Proceedings 13, 81-97 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E45}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bushnell.colin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bushnell, Colin J.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:henniart.guy-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Henniart, Guy}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kutzko.philip-c"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kutzko, Philip C.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05932907"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Types and explicit Plancherel formulae for reductive
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1222.22011"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01222.22011}}\
Arthur, James (ed.) et al., On certain
\f1\i \
L
\f0\i0 -functions. Conference on certain
\f1\i \
L
\f0\i0 -functions in honor of Freydoon Shahidi on the occasion of his 60th birthday, West Lafayette, IN, USA July 23\'9627, 2007. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS); Cambridge, MA: Clay Mathematics Institute (ISBN 978-0-8218-5204-0/pbk). Clay Mathematics Proceedings 13, 55-80 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rahm.alexander-d"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rahm, Alexander D.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05919168"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Homology and
\f1\i \ulnone  K
\f0\i0 \ul -theory of the Bianchi groups.}} 
\i (English. Abridged French version)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1228.20036"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01228.20036}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002925"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 C. R., Math., Acad. Sci. Paris 349, No. 11-12, 615-619 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:46L80"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 46L80}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19D55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19D55}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:jones.owen-t-r"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jones, Owen T.R.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05913768"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 An analogue of the BGG resolution for locally analytic principal series.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1219.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01219.22017}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000512"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Number Theory 131, No. 9, 1616-1640 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F55}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:garzon.antonio-r"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Garz\'f3n, A.R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:del-rio.aurora"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 del R\'edo, A.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05909290"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On algebraic K-theory categorical groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1220.18005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01220.18005}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001875"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Appl. Categ. Struct. 19, No. 3, 633-649 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18D10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18D10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19D99"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19D99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:18F25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18F25}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wehrfritz.bertram-a-f"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wehrfritz, B.A.F.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05908577"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear groups with all subgroups profinitely closed.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1225.20042"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01225.20042}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002722"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Q. J. Math. 62, No. 2, 501-512 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sury.balasubramanian"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sury, B.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05905752"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Tits building and an application to abstract central extensions of
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic algebraic groups by finite
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1232.20048"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01232.20048}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000623"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Am. Math. Soc. 139, No. 6, 2033-2044 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19C09"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19C09}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mcleod.john-bryce"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mcleod, John}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05903729"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hyperbolic reflection groups associated to the quadratic forms 
\f1 \ulnone -3
\i x
\i0\fs18 02
\fs24 +
\i x
\i0\fs18 12
\fs24 +\uc0\u8943 +
\i x
\fs18 n
\i0 2
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1228.20030"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01228.20030}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000434"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geom. Dedicata 152, 1-16 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E57"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E57}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:51F15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 51F15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:abels.herbert"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Abels, Herbert}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:alperin.roger-c"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Alperin, Roger}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05903210"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Undistorted solvable linear groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1239.20055"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01239.20055}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000744"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Trans. Am. Math. Soc. 363, No. 6, 3185-3210 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E25}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rapinchuk.igor-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rapinchuk, Igor A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05903062"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On linear representations of Chevalley groups over commutative rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1232.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01232.20049}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000628"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. (3) 102, No. 5, 951-983 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L15}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hanzer.marcela"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hanzer, Marcela}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:muic.goran"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mui\uc0\u263 , Goran}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05900996"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rank one reducibility for metaplectic groups via theta correspondence.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1217.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01217.22014}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000383"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can. J. Math. 63, No. 3, 591-615 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mimura.masato"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mimura, Masato}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05899209"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fixed point properties and second bounded cohomology of universal lattices on Banach spaces.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1221.20032"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01221.20032}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000520"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Reine Angew. Math. 653, 115-134 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:43A15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 43A15}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:petrov.victor"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Petrov, Victor}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stavrova.anastasia"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stavrova, Anastasia}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05898836"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The Tits indices over semilocal rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1223.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01223.20045}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 16, No. 1, 193-217 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L15}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nica.bogdan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nica, Bogdan}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05898744"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The unreasonable slightness of
\f1\i \ulnone  E
\i0\fs18 2\

\f0\fs24 \ul over imaginary quadratic rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1223.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01223.20044}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000020"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Am. Math. Mon. 118, No. 5, 455-462 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11R11"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11R11}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gutierrez-frez.luis"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Guti\'e9rrez-Frez, Luis}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:pantoja.jose-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pantoja, Jos\'e9}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:soto-andrade.jorge"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Soto-Andrade, Jorge}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05896186"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geometric Weil representations for star-analogues of
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 SL(2,
\i k
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1244.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01244.20047}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Polcino Milies, C\'e9sar (ed.), Groups, algebras and applications. XVIII Latin American algebra colloquium, S\'e3o Pedro, Brazil, August 3\'968, 2009. Proceedings. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-0-8218-5239-2/pbk). Contemporary Mathematics 537, 211-226 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16W10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16W10}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:duckworth.w-ethan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Duckworth, W.Ethan}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05888446"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Unipotent classes in the classical groups parameterized by subgroups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1232.20046"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01232.20046}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000269"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Beitr. Algebra Geom. 52, No. 1, 13-27 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L35}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kato.syu"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kato, Syu}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05886091"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Deformations of nilpotent cones and Springer correspondences.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1242.20056"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01242.20056}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000300"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Am. J. Math. 133, No. 2, 519-553 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B08"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B08}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E47"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E47}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bashkirov.evgenii-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bashkirov, Evgenii L.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05882450"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear groups of degree four containing the subgroup
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 SL
\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i k
\i0 )\uc0\u8855 SL
\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i k
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1219.20032"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01219.20032}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 215, No. 7, 1688-1701 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ma.jing"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ma, Jing}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05877067"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Two-dimensional representations of finitely generated free group over an arbitrary field.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1216.20002"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01216.20002}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear Algebra Appl. 434, No. 12, 2456-2461 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20C15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20C15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E05}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:herpel.sebastian"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Herpel, Sebastian}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gold.daniel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gold, Daniel}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05877029"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Complete reducibility and Steinberg endomorphisms.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1221.20033"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01221.20033}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002925"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 C. R., Math., Acad. Sci. Paris 349, No. 5-6, 243-246 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wortman.kevin-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wortman, Kevin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05876240"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Exponential higher dimensional isoperimetric inequalities for some arithmetic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1219.20027"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01219.20027}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000434"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Geom. Dedicata 151, 141-153 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E46"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E46}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rowen.louis-halle"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rowen, L.H.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:saltman.david-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Saltman, D.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:segev.yoav"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Segev, Y.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vishne.uzi"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vishne, U.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05862643"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 An Azumaya algebra version of the Kneser-Tits problem for groups of type
\f1\i \ulnone \
D
\i0\fs18 4
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1216.20040"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01216.20040}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 39, No. 1, 133-152 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16H05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16H05}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mcnamara.peter-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 McNamara, Peter J.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05841479"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Metaplectic Whittaker functions and crystal bases.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1217.22015"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01217.22015}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000411"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Duke Math. J. 156, No. 1, 1-31 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:breuillard.emmanuel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Breuillard, Emmanuel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:green.ben"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Green, Ben}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05838435"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Approximate groups. I: The torsion-free nilpotent case.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1272.11025"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01272.11025}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003022"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Inst. Math. Jussieu 10, No. 1, 37-57 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11B30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11B30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E25}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ciubotaru.dan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ciubotaru, Dan}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kato.syu"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kato, Syu}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05835541"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tempered modules in exotic Deligne-Langlands correspondence.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1207.22010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01207.22010}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000290"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Adv. Math. 226, No. 2, 1538-1590 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20C08"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20C08}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bushnell.colin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bushnell, Colin J.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:henniart.guy-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Henniart, Guy}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05833998"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Explicit functorial correspondences for level zero representations of
\f1\i \ulnone \
p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic linear groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1205.22012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01205.22012}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000512"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Number Theory 131, No. 2, 309-331 (2011).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bonnafe.cedric"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bonnaf\'e9, C\'e9dric}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05806103"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Representations of
\f1\i \ulnone  
\f3\i0 \uc0\u55349 \u56754 \u55349 \u56747 
\f1\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\f3 \uc0\u55349 \u56637 
\f1\i\fs18 q
\i0\fs24 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1203.22001"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01203.22001}}\
Algebra and Application 13. London: Springer (ISBN 978-0-85729-156-1/hbk; 978-1-4471-2599-0/pbk; 978-0-85729-157-8/ebook). xxii, 186\'a0p. EUR\'a085.55 (2011).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22%2d02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22%2d01"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22-01}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chaudouard.pierre-henri"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chaudouard, P.-H.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:harris.michael-howard"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Harris, M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:laumon.gerard"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Laumon, G.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05925145"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Report on the fundamental lemma.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1223.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01223.22013}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002246"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Eur. Math. Soc. Newsl. 77, 33-36 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11R39"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11R39}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bunina.e-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bunina, E.I.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05915292"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Automorphisms of Chevalley groups of types
\f1\i \ulnone \
A
\fs18 l
\f0\i0\fs24 \ul ,
\f1\i \ulnone D
\fs18 l
\f0\i0\fs24 \ul ,
\f1\i \ulnone E
\fs18 l 
\f0\i0\fs24 \ul over local rings without
\f1 \ulnone  1/2
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1225.20043"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01225.20043}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Math. Sci., New York 169, No. 5, 589-613 (2010); translation from Fundam. Prikl. Mat. 15, No. 7, 47-80 (2009).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E36}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:garge.shripad-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Garge, Shripad M.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05902454"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Excellence of
\f1\i \ulnone  G
\i0\fs18 2 
\f0\fs24 \ul and
\f1\i \ulnone  F
\i0\fs18 4
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1225.20038"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01225.20038}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00006422"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'fcnster J. Math. 3, No. 1, 213-220 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G41}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:jablonski.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jablonski, Michael}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05902449"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Detecting orbits along subvarieties via the moment map.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1223.20043"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01223.20043}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00006422"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'fcnster J. Math. 3, No. 1, 67-88 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E25}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gille.philippe"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gille, Philippe}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05901760"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Serre\'92s conjecture. II: A survey.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1239.11046"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01239.11046}}\
Colliot-Th\'e9l\'e8ne, Jean-Louis (ed.) et al., Quadratic forms, linear algebraic groups, and cohomology. Based on the conference to celebrate the 60th birthday of Raman Parimala, Hyderabad, India, December 30, 2008\'96January 4, 2009. New York, NY: Springer (ISBN 978-1-4419-6210-2/hbk; 978-1-4419-6211-9/ebook). Developments in Mathematics 18, 41-56 (2010).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11E72"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11E72}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:12G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 12G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:platonov.vladimir-p"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Platonov, V.P.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05863911"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 New properties of arithmetic groups.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1214.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01214.20045}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000201"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Russ. Math. Surv. 65, No. 5, 951-975 (2010); translation from Usp. Mat. Nauk 65, No. 5, 157-184 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:frenkel.edward-v"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Frenkel, Edward}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05856449"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gauge theory and Langlands duality.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1209.22009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01209.22009}}\
S\'e9minaire Bourbaki. Volume 2008/2009. Expos\'e9s 997\'961011. Paris: Soci\'e9t\'e9 Math\'e9matique de France (SMF) (ISBN 978-2-85629-291-4/pbk). Ast\'e9risque 332, 369-403, Exp. No. 1010 (2010).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:81R10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 81R10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E70}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:breuillard.emmanuel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Breuillard, Emmanuel}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05856447"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Equidistribution of toric orbits on homogeneous spaces (after M. Einsiedler, E. Lindenstrauss, Ph. Michel, A. Venkatesh). (\'c9quidistribution des orbites toriques sur les espaces homog\'e8nes (d\'92apr\'e8s M. Einsiedler, E. Lindenstrauss, Ph. Michel, A. Venkatesh).)}} 
\i (French)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1209.22005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01209.22005}}\
S\'e9minaire Bourbaki. Volume 2008/2009. Expos\'e9s 997\'961011. Paris: Soci\'e9t\'e9 Math\'e9matique de France (SMF) (ISBN 978-2-85629-291-4/pbk). Ast\'e9risque 332, 305-339, Exp. No. 1008 (2010).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22D40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22D40}}\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mcninch.george-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 McNinch, George J.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05853207"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Levi decompositions of a linear algebraic group.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1221.20034"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01221.20034}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 15, No. 4, 937-964 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kostant.bertram"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kostant, Bertram}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05853200"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On some exotic finite subgroups of
\f1\i \ulnone  E
\i0\fs18 8\

\f0\fs24 \ul and Springer\'92s regular elements of the Weyl group.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1234.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01234.20058}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 15, No. 4, 909-919 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20D06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20D06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G41}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:klyachko.anton-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Klyachko, Anton A.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05840410"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Automorphisms and isomorphisms of Chevalley groups and algebras.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1211.20041"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01211.20041}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 324, No. 10, 2608-2619 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E36}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F28"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F28}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stepanov, Alexei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05833436"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Free product subgroups between Chevalley groups
\f1\i \ulnone \
G
\i0 (
\i \uc0\u934 
\i0 ,
\i F
\i0 )
\f0 \ul  and
\f1\i \ulnone  G
\i0 (
\i \uc0\u934 
\i0 ,
\i F
\i0 [
\i t
\i0 ])
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1211.20042"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01211.20042}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 324, No. 7, 1549-1557 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:sheng.yunhe"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sheng, Yunhe}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05832440"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Jacobi quasi-Nijenhuis algebroids.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1213.53101"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01213.53101}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000193"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rep. Math. Phys. 65, No. 2, 271-287 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:53D17"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53D17}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:53D15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53D15}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gallardo.luis-h"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gallardo, Luis H.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rahavandrainy.olivier"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rahavandrainy, Olivier}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05831614"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Unitary superperfect binary polynomials.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1219.11184"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01219.11184}}\
McGuire, Gary (ed.) et al., Finite fields. Theory and applications. Proceedings of the 9th international conference on finite fields and applications, Dublin, Ireland, July 13\'9617, 2009. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-0-8218-4786-2/pbk). Contemporary Mathematics 518, 155-160 (2010).\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T55}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hutchinson.kevin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hutchinson, Kevin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tao.liqun"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tao, Liqun}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05827445"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Homology stability for the special linear group of a field and Milnor-Witt
\f1\i \ulnone \
K
\f0\i0 \ul -theory.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1216.19005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01216.19005}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Doc. Math., J. DMV Extra Vol., 267-315 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19G99"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19G99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:franjou.vincent"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Franjou, Vincent}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:van-der-kallen.wilberd"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 van der Kallen, Wilberd}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05827441"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Power reductivity over an arbitrary base.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1213.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01213.20044}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Doc. Math., J. DMV Extra Vol., 171-195 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L24}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chernousov.vladimir-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chernousov, V.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05827440"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Variations on a theme of groups splitting by a quadratic extension and Grothendieck-Serre conjecture for group schemes
\f1\i \ulnone   F
\i0\fs18 4 
\f0\fs24 \ul with trivial
\f1\i \ulnone  g
\i0\fs18 3 
\f0\fs24 \ul invariant.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1210.14050"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01210.14050}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Doc. Math., J. DMV Extra Vol., 147-169 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:henniart.guy-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Henniart, Guy}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:lemaire.bertrand"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lemaire, Bertrand}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05826046"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pseudocoefficients of the
\f1\i \ulnone  \uc0\u954 
\f0\i0 \ul -discrete series of GL
\f1 \ulnone (
\i n
\i0 ,
\i F
\i0 )
\f0 \ul . (Pseudo-coefficients des s\'e9ries
\f1\i \ulnone   \uc0\u954 
\f0\i0 \ul -discr\'e8tes de GL
\f1 \ulnone (
\i n
\i0 ,
\i F
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1205.22016"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01205.22016}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000115"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Isr. J. Math. 177, 189-227 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:kassel.fanny"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kassel, Fanny}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05822119"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Compact quotients of non-Archimedean rank-one groups. (Quotients compacts des groupes ultram\'e9triques de rang un.)}} 
\i (French)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1207.22005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01207.22005}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000311"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ann. Inst. Fourier 60, No. 5, 1741-1786 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:57M15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 57M15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:57S30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 57S30}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rivin.igor"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rivin, Igor}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05814083"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zariski density and genericity.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1207.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01207.20045}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001388"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. Math. Res. Not. 2010, No. 19, 3649-3657 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:knuppel.frieder"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kn\'fcppel, Frieder}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nielsen.klaus"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nielsen, Klaus}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05811028"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commutator groups of orthogonal groups over the reals with emphasis on Lorentz groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1207.20043"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01207.20043}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Linear Algebra Appl. 433, No. 11-12, 2111-2121 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15A23"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15A23}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mimura.masato"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mimura, Masato}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05808730"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On quasi-homomorphisms and commutators in the special linear group over a Euclidean ring.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1207.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01207.20049}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001388"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. Math. Res. Not. 2010, No. 18, 3519-3529 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:57M07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 57M07}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:benoist.yves"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Benoist, Yves}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:oh.hee"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Oh, Hee}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05808454"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Discreteness criterion for subgroups of products of SL(2).}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1202.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01202.22014}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transform. Groups 15, No. 3, 503-515 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nesterov.v-v"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nesterov, V.V.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:stepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stepanov, A.V.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05806099"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Identity with constants in a Chevalley group of type
\f1\i \ulnone  F
\i0\fs18 4
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1207.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01207.20044}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001977"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 St. Petersbg. Math. J. 21, No. 5, 819-823 (2010); translation from Algebra Anal. 21, No. 5, 196-202 (2009).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:waldspurger.jean-loup"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Waldspurger, J.-L.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05793401"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 An integral formula related to the local Gross-Prasad conjecture. (Une formule int\'e9grale reli\'e9e \'e0 la conjecture locale de Gross-Prasad.)}} 
\i (French)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1200.22010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01200.22010}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000393"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Compos. Math. 146, No. 5, 1180-1290 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:car.mireille"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Car, Mireille}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gallardo.luis-h"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gallardo, Luis H.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05788414"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On quadratic forms over the ring
\f1\i \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3\i0 \cf2 \uc0\u55349 \u56637 
\f1\fs18 2
\i h
\i0\fs24 [
\i T
\i0 ]
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1235.11111"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01235.11111}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00007022"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Adv. Appl. Math. Sci. 3, No. 2, 139-164 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T55}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bate.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bate, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:martin.benjamin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Martin, Benjamin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:tange.rudolf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tange, Rudolf}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05770881"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Complete reducibility and separability.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1204.20063"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01204.20063}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000744"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Trans. Am. Math. Soc. 362, No. 8, 4283-4311 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L24"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L24}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hazrat.roozbeh"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hazrat, R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:petrov.vadim-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Petrov, V.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vavilov.nikolai-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, N.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05770043"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Relative subgroups in Chevalley groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1204.20066"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01204.20066}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00006558"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. K-Theory 5, No. 3, 603-618 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:colmez.pierre"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Colmez, Pierre}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05765031"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The unitary principal series of
\f1 \ulnone  GL
\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u8474 
\fs18 p
\i0\fs24 )
\f0 \ul . (La s\'e9rie principale unitaire de
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 GL
\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u8474 
\fs18 p
\i0\fs24 )
\f0 \ul .)}} 
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1242.11095"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01242.11095}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Berger, Laurent (ed.) et al., Repr\'e9sentations
\f1\i  p
\f0\i0 -adiques de groupes
\f1\i  p
\f0\i0 -adiques II: Repr\'e9sentations de
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf0 GL
\fs18 2
\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u8474 
\fs18 p
\i0\fs24 )
\f0  et 
\f1 (
\i \uc0\u966 
\i0 ,
\i \uc0\u947 
\i0 )
\f0 -modules. Paris: Soci\'e9t\'e9 Math\'e9matique de France (ISBN 978-2-85629-281-5/pbk). Ast\'e9risque 330, 213-262 (2010).\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11S37"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11S37}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:gallardo.luis-h"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gallardo, Luis H.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rahavandrainy.olivier"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rahavandrainy, Olivier}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05762789"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On unitary splitting perfect polynomials over
\f1\i \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3\i0 \cf2 \uc0\u55349 \u56637 
\f1\i\fs18 p
\i0 2}}
\f1 \cf2 . 
\f0 \cf0  
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1219.11183"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01219.11183}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002279"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Commun. 15, No. 1, 159-176 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T55"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11T06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11T06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:15B33"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15B33}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bunina.e-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bunina, E.I.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05759993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Elementary equivalence of Chevalley groups over local rings.}} 
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1201.20048"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01201.20048}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002175"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sb. Math. 201, No. 3, 321-337 (2010); translation from Mat. Sb. 201, No. 3, 3-20 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20A15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20A15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:03C60"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 03C60}}\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:chenevier.gaetan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Chenevier, Ga\'ebtan}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:renard.david-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Renard, David}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05757839"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the vanishing of some non-semisimple orbital integrals.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1194.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01194.22017}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001689"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Expo. Math. 28, No. 3, 276-289 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hanzer.marcela"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hanzer, Marcela}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:matic.ivan"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mati\uc0\u263 , Ivan}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05729742"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Irreducibility of the unitary principal series of p-adic
\f1\i \ulnone \
Sp
\i0 (
\i n
\i0 ) 
\fs18 \'98
\f0\fs24 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1194.22020"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01194.22020}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000547"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Manuscr. Math. 132, No. 3-4, 539-547 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22D10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22D10}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:ghandour.soumaia"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ghandour, Souma\'efa}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05718176"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Irreducible disconnected subgroups of exceptional algebraic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1216.20039"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01216.20039}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 323, No. 10, 2671-2709 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G41"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G41}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bate.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bate, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:martin.benjamin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Martin, Benjamin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:rohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05712613"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Complete reducibility and separable field extensions.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1216.20037"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01216.20037}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002925"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 C. R., Math., Acad. Sci. Paris 348, No. 9-10, 495-497 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zorn.christian-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zorn, Christian A.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05706417"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Explicit doubling integrals for
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 Sp
\fs18 2\'98
\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u8474 
\i0\fs18 2
\fs24 )
\f0 \ul  using \'93good test vectors\'94.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1194.22021"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01194.22021}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00002282"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Represent. Theory 14, 285-323, electronic only (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11F70}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:cook.martin"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cook, Martin}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05703814"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Aspects of the conjugacy class structure of simple algebraic groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1214.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01214.20044}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001828"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebr. Comb. 31, No. 3, 319-353 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}}\
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bunina.e-i"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bunina, E.I.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05696949"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Automorphisms of Chevalley groups of type
\f1\i \ulnone  F
\i0\fs18 4 
\f0\fs24 \ul over local rings with
\f1 \ulnone  1/2
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1195.20054"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01195.20054}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 323, No. 8, 2270-2289 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E36}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:fox.joseph-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Fox, Joseph A.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05696912"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A classification of nilpotent orbits in infinitesimal symmetric spaces.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1229.20040"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01229.20040}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Algebra 323, No. 5, 1358-1368 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B08"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B08}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:17B45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17B45}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:barbasch.dan-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Barbasch, Dan}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05692620"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 The unitary spherical spectrum for split classical groups.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1188.22010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01188.22010}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00003022"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Inst. Math. Jussieu 9, No. 2, 265-356 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E46"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E46}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:henniart.guy-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Henniart, Guy}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05681403"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Langland\'92s correspondence and
\f1\i \ulnone \
L
\f0\i0 \ul -functions for the exterior and symmetric squares. (Correspondance de Langlands et fonctions
\f1\i \ulnone \
L
\f0\i0 \ul des carr\'e9s ext\'e9rieur et sym\'e9trique.)}} 
\i (French)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1184.22009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01184.22009}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00001388"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Int. Math. Res. Not. 2010, No. 4, 633-673 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bashkirov.evgenii-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bashkirov, Evgenii L.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05676072"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On subgroups of orthogonal groups of isotropic quadratic forms.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1192.20033"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01192.20033}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 214, No. 7, 1049-1062 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:soifer.grigori-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Soifer, G.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vishkautsan.solomon"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vishkautsan, S.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05673154"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Simultaneous ping-pong partners in
\f1 \ulnone  PSL
\i\fs18 n
\i0\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u8484 
\i0 )
\f0 \ul .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1195.20052"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01195.20052}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Commun. Algebra 38, No. 1, 288-301 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E06}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:costantini.mauro"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Costantini, Mauro}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05671544"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the coordinate ring of spherical conjugacy classes.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1195.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01195.20049}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000579"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Z. 264, No. 2, 327-359 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14L30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:14M27"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 14M27}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G15}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:hazrat.roozbeh"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hazrat, Roozbeh}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05671541"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 SK
\fs18 1 
\f0\fs24 \ul of Azumaya algebras over Hensel pairs.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1192.16006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01192.16006}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000579"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Math. Z. 264, No. 2, 295-299 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16E20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16E20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:16H05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16H05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:19B99"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B99}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:zhang.zuhong"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhang, Zuhong}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05669130"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Subnormal structure of non-stable unitary groups over rings.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1192.20037"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01192.20037}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 J. Pure Appl. Algebra 214, No. 5, 622-628 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E07}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:campbell.peter-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Campbell, Peter S.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:nevins.monica"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nevins, Monica}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05668367"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Branching rules for ramified principal series representations of
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
\cf2 GL(3)
\f0 \ul  over a
\f1\i \ulnone  p
\f0\i0 \ul -adic field.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1184.22008"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01184.22008}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000383"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Can. J. Math. 62, No. 1, 34-51 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G25}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:shenfeld.daniel-k"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Shenfeld, Daniel K.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05658123"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On semisimple representations of universal lattices.}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1197.20039"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01197.20039}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00004953"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Groups Geom. Dyn. 4, No. 1, 179-193 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}}\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:bux.kai-uwe"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bux, Kai-Uwe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:mohammadi.amir"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mohammadi, Amir}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:wortman.kevin-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wortman, Kevin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:05648232"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 SL
\i\fs18 n
\i0\fs24 (
\i \uc0\u8484 
\i0 [
\i t
\i0 ])
\f0 \ul  is not
\f1 \ulnone  FP
\i\fs18 n
\i0 -1\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 .}} 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an:1188.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl\'a01188.20047}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/journals/?q=se:00000389"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Comment. Math. Helv. 85, No. 1, 151-164 (2010).}}\
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai:vaserstein.leonid%2dn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:57M07"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 57M07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20J05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20J05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc:20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20E42}}\
}