{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f5\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;
\f6\fnil\fcharset134 STSong;\f7\fnil\fcharset0 ArialUnicodeMS;\f8\fnil\fcharset128 HiraMinProN-W3;
\f9\fnil\fcharset238 CapitalsRegular;\f10\froman\fcharset0 Garamond;\f11\fnil\fcharset0 AppleSymbols;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green17\blue242;\red9\green0\blue197;\red0\green0\blue239;
\red0\green0\blue237;\red28\green0\blue239;\red9\green78\blue229;\red0\green0\blue239;\red51\green102\blue255;
\red9\green80\blue176;\red117\green117\blue117;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21660\viewh24440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 VinBooks\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 1970 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Cno-AQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Problems of information transmission: Volume 6}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2    Page 61, 69  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Consultants+Bureau%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CEUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Consultants Bureau}}  \uc0\u8234 Faraday Press\uc0\u8236 , 1970  \
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=pgJGAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=FcbcUN2BJoqx0AGaoYGgAg&sqi=2&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Automation express - Volume 12 -}}\uc0\u8234 International Physical Index.\uc0\u8236 , 1970 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=pgJGAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=FcbcUN2BJoqx0AGaoYGgAg&sqi=2&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  Page 16}}
\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 , 37\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone Vasershtein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1971 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=I9g-AAAAIAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=50XcUJSCNPHr0QHs-oCoBQ&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Arithmetic groups - Page 117}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22James+E.+Humphreys%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 James E. Humphreys}}
\b0\fs24 \ulnone    \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University\uc0\u8236 , 1971 - \uc0\u8234 121 pages\uc0\u8236  ISBN: 0387099727\
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=26&mx-pid=339966"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR0339966
\b0 \ul  }}\\cyr Matematika: Periodicheski\uc0\u301  sbornik perevodov inostrannykh state\u301 . Tom 15 (1971), \\cyr vyp. 6. (Russian) [Mathematics: Periodical collection of translations of foreign articles. \
Vol. 15 (1971), no. 6] 
\i Izdat. ``Mir'', Moscow,
\i0  1971. 166 pp. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=00A10"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 00A10}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b \cf4 \ulnone M{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=25&mx-pid=429414"}}{\fldrslt R0429414
\b0 \ul  }}
\b0 \cf0  \\cyr Matematika: Periodicheski\uc0\u301  sbornik perevodov inostrannykh state\u301  15, vyp. 1. (Russian) [Mathematics: Periodical collection of translations of foreign articles \
15, no. 1] 
\i Izdat. ``Mir'', Moscow,
\i0  1971. 160 pp. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=00A10"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 00A10}}
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1972  \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MBHvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=VMXcUJyVJ5Kv0AGLzIDIAg&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf3 \ul S\'e9minaire de probabilit\'e9s VI: Universit\'e9 de Strasbourg }}
\f2 \cf3 \ul  
\f1\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone 1971/72, Volume 11 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MBHvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=VMXcUJyVJ5Kv0AGLzIDIAg&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul  Page 286}}
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul , 290
\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1972,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1972&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Springer%22&ei=etnkToHxIqH50gG0i4X3BQ&ved=0CEcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Springer}}
\b0\fs24  - 1972 - 253 pages Lecture Notes in Mathematics 258\
References. M. DOBRUSIN, R. L. : Description of a random field by means of conditional 
\i probabilities
\i0  and conditions of its regularity. 
\b ...
\b0  
\i WASSERSTEIN
\i0 , L. N. : Probl. peredaci informacii 5,3 (1969), 64-73.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=zVYVhjQX4lYC&pg=PR8&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Introduction to Algebraic K-Theory }}\'a0By JOHN W AUTOR MILNOR  Princeton University Press 1972 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=zVYVhjQX4lYC&pg=PR8&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 - Page viii}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=24&mx-pid=352037"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR0352037
\b0 \ul  }}\cf4  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=181390"}}{\fldrslt \ul Ve\uc0\u301 l
\f3 \ulnone \uc0\u697 
\f1 \ul , Andr\'e8}}\cf0  \\cyr Osnovy teorii chisel. (Russian) [Fundamentals of number theory] Translated from the English by L. N. Vasser\'9ate\uc0\u301 n and A. N. Par\'9ain.\
Edited by I. I. Pjatecki\uc0\u301 -\'8aapiro. 
\i Izdat. ``Mir'', Moscow,
\i0  1972. 408 pp. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=12-XX"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 12-XX}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1973 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=s__uAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=29TkTv6qBern0QHD-MDpBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Hermitian K-theory and geometric applications: proceedings of the }}\uc0\u8234  conference held at the Seattle Research Center of the Battelle Memorial Institute,\uc0\u8236 \
from August 28 to September 8, 1972 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1971,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1974&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hyman+Bass%22&sa=X&ei=29TkTv6qBern0QHD-MDpBQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hyman Bass}} - 1973 - 572 pages 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2  Page 125, 156, 212\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tYs7klb7J20C&pg=PA286&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=29TkTv6qBern0QHD-MDpBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul S\'e9minaire de probabilit\'e9s VII: Universit\'e9 de Strasbourg - Page 286}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1971,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1974&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Paul+Andr%C3%A9+Meyer%22&sa=X&ei=29TkTv6qBern0QHD-MDpBQ&ved=0CFcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Paul Andr\'e9 Meyer}}
\b0\fs24  - 1973 - 322 pages Lecture Notes in Mathematics 321\
idea of WASSERSTEIN\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9pofAQAAIAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ekbcUI6bIO-K0QGb8IHgCQ&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Topics in stability and bifurcation theory }}\uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1973 \uc0\u8234 190 pages\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9pofAQAAIAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ekbcUI6bIO-K0QGb8IHgCQ&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 - Page 89}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+H.+Sattinger%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 David H. Sattinger}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1973 - - \uc0\u8234 190 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/1227871615805p02.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Three conjectures about modules over polynomial rings}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=i8hLJxkAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul D Eisenbud}}
\b0\fs24 , E Evans - 
\b Conference 
\b0 on Commutative Algebra, 1973 - Springer\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Nat. Acad. Sci. 44(1958), 456-458. 
\b Vaserstein
\b0 , L. [Vas] "Stable Rank of Rings and Dimensionality\
of Topological Spaces~ Functional Analysis and its Applications 5 , (1971), I02-110. Brandeis\
University Waltham, Massachusetts MIT Cambridge, Massachusetts 89\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CDcQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fsearch.barnesandnoble.com%2FProceedings-Of-The-Conference-On-Orders-Group-Rings-And-Related-Topics%2FJ-S-Hsia%2Fe%2F9783540065180&ei=kGjlUNbvDc_W0gHazoGwDA&usg=AFQjCNHmOQV2XdP8rVYyycNOQsRArFqMeg&sig2=1D13QEterOHoAMvstJRmsg&bvm=bv.1355534169,d.dmQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Proceedings of the Conference on Orders
\i0 \ul , 
\i \ulnone Group
\i0 \ul  Rings and}}
\fs48  
\fs24 Related Topics / Edition 1 
\i by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.barnesandnoble.com/c/j-s-hsia"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul J. S. Hsia}} (Editor), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.barnesandnoble.com/c/m-l-madan"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul M. L. Madan}} (Editor), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.barnesandnoble.com/c/t-g-ralley"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul T. G. Ralley}} (Editor)\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i0\b0 \cf0 1973 - Springer       Institute in Seattle, Washington, August 28- September 8, 1972). 
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/LP56426641216170.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Stability for K 2}} 
\b0\fs24 R Dennis \
[14] LN 
\b Vaserstein
\b0 , On the stabilization of the general linear grOup over\
a ring~ Mat. Sbornik 79 (1969), 405-424 (Amer. Math. Soc. Translation v. 8, 383-4oo. ) 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs28 \cf0 1974\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jq7oAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=29TkTv6qBern0QHD-MDpBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Bulletin signal\'e9tique: }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul   - Page 291, 312
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Informatique, automatique, recherche op\'e9rationnelle, gestion\uc0\u8236 , Volume 35, Issues 1-7061
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1971,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1974&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29.+Centre+de+documentation+scientifique+et+technique%22&sa=X&ei=29TkTv6qBern0QHD-MDpBQ&ved=0CGkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Centre national de la recherche scientifique (France). Centre de documentation scientifique et technique}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1971,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1974&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29.+Centre+de+documentation+scientifique+et+technique%22&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29.+Centre+de+documentation%22&sa=X&ei=29TkTv6qBern0QHD-MDpBQ&ved=0CGoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Centre national de la recherche scientifique (France). Centre de documentation}} - 1974\
distance de Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=30bM3wA8ywIC&pg=PA8&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=otXkTvuMFqfa0QGxp4CBBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Introduction to some methods of algebraic K-theory - Page 8}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1971,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1974&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hyman+Bass%22&sa=X&ei=otXkTvuMFqfa0QGxp4CBBg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Hyman Bass}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1971,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1974&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hyman+Bass%22&q=inauthor:%22Conference+Board+of+the+Mathematical+Sciences%22&sa=X&ei=otXkTvuMFqfa0QGxp4CBBg&ved=0CDoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Conference Board of the Mathematical Sciences}} - 1974 - 68 pages\
The definitive form (above) of (b) is due to 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  [Va] . It is by far the most difficult of the results I shall discuss here. Its proof is too long and technical to give in detail within the scope of these lectures. 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=WUfQAAAAMAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=otXkTvuMFqfa0QGxp4CBBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEkQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Lecture notes on discrete Markov system}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul s - Page 57, 70 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Carleton+mathematical+lecture+notes%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=6"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Volume 10 of Carleton mathematical lecture notes}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1971,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1974&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22D.+A.+Dawson%22&sa=X&ei=otXkTvuMFqfa0QGxp4CBBg&ved=0CEoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul D. A. Dawson}}
\b0\fs24  - \uc0\u8234 Carleton University\uc0\u8236 , 1974 - \uc0\u8234 144 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=23&mx-pid=395739"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR0395739
\b0 \ul  }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4  \\}}cyr Matematicheskie metody v \'e8konomicheskikh issledovaniyakh. (Russian) [Mathematical methods in economic research] Supplement to \'c8konom. i Mat. Metody. \
Edited by E. G. Gol
\f3 \uc0\u697 
\f1 \'9ate\uc0\u301 n. \\cyr Seriya "\\cyr Optimal
\f3 \uc0\u697 
\f1 noe Planirovanie i Upravlenie''. [Optimal Planning and Control Series] 
\i Izdat. ``Nauka'', Moscow,
\i0  1974. 172 pp. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=90-06"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 90-06}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
1975 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vdDuAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CEwQ6AEwCDgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Limit theorems of probability theor}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul y - Page 152, 162
\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22P%C3%A1l+R%C3%A9v%C3%A9sz%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0 \cf2 \ul P\'e1l R\'e9v\'e9sz}}
\b0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Bolyai+J%C3%A1nos+Matematikai+T%C3%A1rsulat%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bolyai J\'e1nos Matematikai T\'e1rsulat}} 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22%28Colloquia+mathematica+Societatis+J%C3%A1nos+Bolyai%29%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=7"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b0 \cf5 \uc0\u8234 Volume 11 of (Colloquia mathematica Societatis J\'e1nos Bolyai)}}
\i\b0 \cf5 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 North-Holland Pub. Co., 1975
\b \uc0\u8236  
\b0 \uc0\u8234 IEEE\uc0\u8236 , 1975 - 420 pages
\b  \

\b0 Wasserstein - distance\
APPLICATIONS (a) The 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=L3dm19JFV2QC&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul IEEE transactions on communications: Volume 23}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Communications+Society%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CFcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul IEEE Communications Society}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Communications+Society%22&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CFgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers}} - 1975\
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=uPAUAQAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBThQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Computer and information systems: Volume 14}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul   1975 
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Cambridge Scientific Abstracts.
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NRZDAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nEncUPD4Fo690QHN9YGYBw&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Proceedings: Eighth Hawaii International Conference on System Science}}s  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NRZDAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nEncUPD4Fo690QHN9YGYBw&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt - Page 80, 81}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 conference held January 7, 8, 9, 1975 Western Periodicals Co.\uc0\u8236 2975 , 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone The mismatch bound is in terms of a measure of the distance between random variables which is a generalization of the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  \
distance [ 1, 2] and a special case of the P distance between random processes [ 3] .\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=eICMfNiDdigC&pg=PA112&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ulc4 Algebraic Geometry: Arcata 1974 - Page 112}}\cf4 \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0edited by Robin Hartshorne, American Mathematical Society 1975\
Suslin-
\i Vaserstein
\i0  all announced important progress.
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1976 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ZT1xJSCdG30C&pg=PA15&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBjigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Introduction to ergodic theory: - Page 15}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22I%CD%A1Akov+Grigor%CA%B9evich+Sina%C4%AD%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\f4\b0\fs24 I\uc0\u865 
\f1 Akov Grigor
\f5 \uc0\u697 
\f1 evich Sina\uc0\u301 }}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - Princeton University Press 1976 - 144 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xL1UAAAAYAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDYQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Coupling methods for Markov processes}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 24, 45, 71\cf0 \ulnone   \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+Scott+Griffeath%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul David Scott Griffeath}}
\b0\fs24  - 1976 - 158 pages\
Once again, straightforward computations show that (l6) leads to a coupling, the version for Markov processes of a more general construction due to \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasershtein
\i0 ; call it the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  coupling.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=SE4sAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFYQ6AEwCDhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Soviet electrical engineering: Volume 46, Issues 7-12}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul   1976. Page 103, 104, 111
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
1975 \uc0\u8234 Allerton Press\uc0\u8236 , 1976\
PARAIEETRIC NODELS FOR OPTII-'IIZING FUTURE INDUSTRY-WIDE PLANNING \
L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 , Yu. A. Rudnev, and E. B. Sherman Eiektrotekhnika, V01. 46, No. T1, pp. 57-59, T975 UDC 65.0T2.2 Fundamentally new parametric models 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TG1kAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCThG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Proceedings of the 1975 IEEE-USSR Joint Workshop on Information }}
\b\fs26 \uc0\u8234 Theory, December 15-19, 1975, Moscow, USSR
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236   - Page 48, 49, 63\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Akademii%EF%B8%A0a%EF%B8%A1+nauk+SSSR.+Working+Group+on+Information+Theory%22&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&ved=0CFsQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Akademii
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 a
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1  nauk SSSR. Working Group on Information Theory}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Akademii%EF%B8%A0a%EF%B8%A1+nauk+SSSR.+Working+Group+on+Information+Theory%22&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Information+Theory+Group%22&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&ved=0CFwQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul IEEE Information Theory Group}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Akademii%EF%B8%A0a%EF%B8%A1+nauk+SSSR.+Working+Group+on+Information+Theory%22&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Information+Theory+Group%22&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers.+Information+Theory+Group%22&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&ved=0CF0Q9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Information Theory Group}} - 1976 - 247 pages\
The V distance can also be interpreted as a natural adaptation of the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance [22] to random processes.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ny8ZAQAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=M0jcUM6ZG-iL0QHdooCwCQ&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Probabilities and 
\i \ulnone metrics
\i0 \ul : convergence of laws on 
\i \ulnone metric
\i0 \ul  spaces, }}\uc0\u8234 with a view to statistical testing\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Richard+M.+Dudley%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Richard M. Dudley}}\cf4  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ny8ZAQAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=M0jcUM6ZG-iL0QHdooCwCQ&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \ul  - Page 20-1}}
\b\fs28 \ul , 20-2\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein norm\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xp_RAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nEncUPD4Fo690QHN9YGYBw&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Sufficient conditions for unique invariant measures for discrete ... - Page iv, 11}}, 201\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 University of Wisconsin--Madison\uc0\u8236 , 1976 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Mathematics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics}} - \uc0\u8234 402 pages\uc0\u8236 \
The basic result used in the dual operator approach is due to 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  and 
\b ...\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=eHCmAAAAIAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ekbcUI6bIO-K0QGb8IHgCQ&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Geometric algebra over local rings - Page 415}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bernard+R.+McDonald%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Bernard R. McDonald}}
\b0\fs24 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 M. Dekker\uc0\u8236 , 1976 - \uc0\u8234 421 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=OKoZAQAAIAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ekbcUI6bIO-K0QGb8IHgCQ&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Algebraic K-theory: proceedings of the conference held at }}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Northwestern University, Evanston, January 12-16, 1976\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=OKoZAQAAIAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ekbcUI6bIO-K0QGb8IHgCQ&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul  - Page }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul 77, 78, 153\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Michael R. Stein Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1976 - \uc0\u8234 409 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 1977  \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0FEvAAAAMAAJ&pg=PA109&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul ACM Guide to Computing Literature}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Association+for+Computing+Machinery%22&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Association for Computing Machinery}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1977 - 1695 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=F4BQAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Ergodic and information theory}}
\b\fs28   
\b0\fs24  - 
\b\fs22 Page 329, 339, 387 
\fs28  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Robert+M.+Gray%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CFsQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Robert M. Gray}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Robert+M.+Gray%22&q=inauthor:%22Lee+D.+Davisson%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CFwQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Lee D. Davisson}} - 1977 - 387 pages\
As suggested by Kailath (1973), p" can be interpreted as the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance (
\i Vasershtein
\i0  (1969)) between [is and // with 
\b ...
\b0  Hence Theorem 1 demonstrates the equivalence of the p distance with the appropriate 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QnQzAAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=TsfkToSfF4Hy0gGX2uDqBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul The Annals of probability: Volume 5}}
\b\fs28   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Mathematical+Statistics%22&ei=TsfkToSfF4Hy0gGX2uDqBQ&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Institute of Mathematical Statistics}}
\b0\fs24  - 1977 - 
\b Page 678, 692\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=88FUAAAAYAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=29HkTvSHHIba0QGeiNWDBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGMQ6AEwCTha"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Controlled spin-flip systems}}
\b\fs28   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lawrence+Firman+Gray%22&ei=29HkTvSHHIba0QGeiNWDBg&ved=0CGQQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Lawrence Firman Gray}}
\b0\fs24  - 1977 - 104 pages - 
\b Page 52\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TJwpAQAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nEncUPD4Fo690QHN9YGYBw&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Proceedings of the ... Conference on Information Sciences and Systems - Volume 11 - Page 158}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 159, 161\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, Johns Hopkins University\uc0\u8236 , 1977\
Abstract The Bhattacharyya, l\'97divergence, 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 , variational and Levy distances are evaluated, compared and used for the reduction of n data to one feature. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ghfyAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein+-wendy+-bruce&dq=vasershtein+-wendy+-bruce&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8GfpUKqaAcfp0gGso4HQBA&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Annales: Calcul des probabilit\'e9s et statistique - Volume 13 - Page 157}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1977,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1977&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institut+Henri+Poincar%C3%A9%22&sa=X&ei=8GfpUKqaAcfp0gGso4HQBA&ved=0CEAQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Institut Henri Poincar\'e9}}
\b0\fs24  - \uc0\u8234 Gauthier-Villars., 1977\uc0\u8236 \
A. L. Toom, Nonergodic multidimensional systems of automata. Problemy Peredachi Informatsii, t. 10, no. 3. 1974. p. 229-246. [12] L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 , A. M. Leontovich, Invariant measures of certain Markov operators describing a homogeneous 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 1978\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_lmnAAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Studies in probability and ergodic theory}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul    {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Gian-Carlo+Rota%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CGkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Gian-Carlo Rota}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Academic Press\uc0\u8236 , 1978 - \uc0\u8234 293 pages\uc0\u8236  - 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Page 14, 26, 39\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Note that the classical coupled process is "weaker" than the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  coupled process since the former moves from (x, y) $ A 
\b ...
\b0  In fact, the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  coupling is characterized by the property that at each step it sends us to the diagonal as 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=RKzQAAAAMAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CFsQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Locally interacting systems and their application in biology: - Page 55, 112}}
\f1\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the School-Seminar on Markov Interaction Processes in Biology, held in Pushchino, Moscow Region, March 1976
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22R.+L.+Dobrushin%22&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 R. L. Dobrushin}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22R.+L.+Dobrushin%22&q=inauthor:%22V.+I.+Kri%EF%B8%A0u%EF%B8%A1kov%22&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul V. I. Kri
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 u
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1 kov}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22R.+L.+Dobrushin%22&q=inauthor:%22V.+I.+Kri%EF%B8%A0u%EF%B8%A1kov%22&q=inauthor:%22A.+L.+Toom%22&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A. L. Toom}} - \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1978 - \uc0\u8234 202 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasershtein
\i0  L.N., Markov processes on a conutable space product describing large automata systems, Problemy Peredaci Informacii, 5_, (1969) , vyp. 3, 64-72.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=74&mx-pid=536824"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR0536824
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (81e:60003)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=548194"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Szulga, Alicja}} On the Wasserstein metric. 
\i Transactions of the Eighth Prague Conference on Information Theory, Statistical Decision Functions, Random Processes (Prague, 1978), Vol. B, 
\i0 pp. 267--273, 
\i Reidel, Dordrecht-Boston, Mass.,
\i0  1978. (Reviewer: V. J. Paulauskas) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05,%2890A05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B05 (90A05)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7xMZAQAAIAAJ&q=editions:B6nraFikxwgC&dq=editions:B6nraFikxwgC&hl=en&sa=X&ei=32TpUMPTI6fO0QGr9ICoBQ&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Ergodic theory and information - Page 129}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1978,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1978&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Patrick+Billingsley%22&ei=32TpUMPTI6fO0QGr9ICoBQ&ved=0CDgQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Patrick Billingsley}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1978 
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 1979 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VQDvAAAAMAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Ring theory Waterloo, 1978:  - Page 329, 333}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 338\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings, University of Waterloo, Canada, 12-16 June 1978
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1979 - Lecture Notes in Mathemstics 734  \uc0\u8234 352 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ZxjvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Random walks with stationary increments and renewal theory: Volume 1972}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 29, 221
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22H.+C.+P.+Berbee%22&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 \ul H. C. P. Berbee}}
\f1  - 1979 - 223 pages\
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=18ZUAAAAYAAJ&q=waserstein&dq=waserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ikvcUN6FEcT90gHriYCwBw&ved=0CGEQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul The stochastic time evolution of Gaussian interacting systems - Page 91}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cheng-tan+Hsiao%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Cheng-tan Hsiao}}
\b0\fs24 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Cornell University, Aug.\uc0\u8236 , 1979 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Mathematics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics}} - \uc0\u8234 182 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yNHxAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=odjkTpvFFMjc0QHBocTXAw&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul S\uc0\u363 ri kagaku k\u333 ky\u363 roku: Volumes 371-374}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 124\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1979,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1979&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ky%C5%8Dto+Daigaku.+S%C5%ABri+Kaiseki+Kenky%C5%ABjo%22&ei=odjkTpvFFMjc0QHBocTXAw&ved=0CDQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Ky\uc0\u333 to Daigaku. S\u363 ri Kaiseki Kenky\u363 jo}}
\b0\fs24  - 1979\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yZsHx9mn2OMC&pg=PR11&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul An Introduction to Homological Algebra - Volume 85 - Page xi}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By Joseph J. Rotman Academic Press 1979\
Vaserstein's
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Ib8ZAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ed3eUKv8A4ma0QHU24D4BA&ved=0CGEQ6AEwCTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Additive and cancellative interacting particle systems - Page 106}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+Griffeath%22&ei=ed3eUKv8A4ma0QHU24D4BA&ved=0CGMQ9AgwCTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 David Griffeath}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1979 \
L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  (1969). Markov processes over denumerable products of spaces
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5P5VAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=yN7eUMzzA6a30AHoyIGgDw&ved=0CDYQ6AEwATgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory - Page 135}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Xplore+%28Online+service%29.%22&ei=yN7eUMzzA6a30AHoyIGgDw&ved=0CDgQ9AgwATgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 IEEE Xplore (Online service).}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Information+Theory+Group%22&ei=yN7eUMzzA6a30AHoyIGgDw&ved=0CDkQ9AgwATgy"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul IEEE Information Theory Group}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Information+Theory+Society%22&ei=yN7eUMzzA6a30AHoyIGgDw&ved=0CDoQ9AgwATgy"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul IEEE Information Theory Society}} - 1979\
THE 
\i VASERSHTEIN
\i0  DISTANCE AS THE STABILITY CRITERION IN ROBUST ESTIMATION, P. Papantoni-Kazakos (School of Engineering, U-l57, University of Connecticut, Storrs, Connecticut 06268). In the models used by Hampel as well as\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=KmpKAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=yN7eUMzzA6a30AHoyIGgDw&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBTgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Commutative rings whose finitely generated modules decompose - Page 28, 105, 106}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Willy+Brandal%22&ei=yN7eUMzzA6a30AHoyIGgDw&ved=0CE4Q9AgwBTgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Willy Brandal}}
\b0\fs24  - 1979\
L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  (1969). Markov processes over denumerable products of spaces, describing large systems of automata, Problemy Peredachl Informatsll 5 (3), 64-73. L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  and A. M. Leontovlch (1970). Invariant measures of 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 1980 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=b7AvAQAAIAAJ&pg=PA1595&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=vL1hTeLhCYOcgQfWqZH5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CDwQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul INIS atomindeks: Volume 11, Issues 5-6}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22International+Atomic+Energy+Agency%22&ei=vL1hTeLhCYOcgQfWqZH5AQ&ved=0CD0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 International Atomic Energy Agency}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22International+Nuclear+Information+System%22&ei=vL1hTeLhCYOcgQfWqZH5AQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul International Nuclear Information System}} -1980\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=55spAQAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Proceedings of the ... Conference on Information Sciences and Systems: Volume 14}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 262\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Johns+Hopkins+University.+Dept.+of+Electrical+Engineering%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CEoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Johns Hopkins University. Dept. of Electrical Engineering}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Johns+Hopkins+University.+Dept.+of+Electrical+Engineering%22&q=inauthor:%22Johns+Hopkins+University.+Electrical+%26+Computer+Engineering%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CEsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Johns Hopkins University. Electrical & Computer Engineering}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Johns+Hopkins+University.+Dept.+of+Electrical+Engineering%22&q=inauthor:%22Johns+Hopkins+University.+Electrical+%26+Computer+Engineering%22&q=inauthor:%22Princeton+University.+Dept.+of+Electrical+Engineering%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CEwQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Princeton University. Dept. of Electrical Engineering}} - 1980\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=grtWAAAAYAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCDgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul The Soviet review: Volumes 20-21}}
\b\fs28   
\b0\fs24 1980  - Page 44\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth15680\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth15560\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt40 \clpadl40 \clpadb40 \clpadr40 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 LN 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  and EB Sherman, "O formirovanii variantov v diskretnykh zadachakh optimal'nogo otraslevogo planirovaniia," Ekonomika i matematicheskie metody, 1975, vol. 11, no. 4. 21.\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Kp0-AQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAjhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Multicomponent random systems}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  Page 58, 468, 502, 574\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22R.+L.+Dobrushin%22&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&ved=0CDwQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul R. L. Dobrushin}}
\b0\fs24 , 
\f4 I\uc0\u865 
\f1 Akov Grigor
\f5 \uc0\u697 
\f1 evich Sina\uc0\u301 , David Griffeath - \uc0\u8234 Marcel Dekker\uc0\u8236 , 1980 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Mathematics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics}} - \uc0\u8234 606 page \uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=14fQAAAAMAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=UdjkTsGJC8Hb0QGYoanmBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul SK1 von Schiefk\'f6rpern:}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1980,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1980&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+Draxl%22&sa=X&ei=UdjkTsGJC8Hb0QGYoanmBQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Peter Draxl}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1980,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1980&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+Draxl%22&q=inauthor:%22Martin+Kneser%22&sa=X&ei=UdjkTsGJC8Hb0QGYoanmBQ&ved=0CDoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Martin Kneser}} -   \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1980 - \uc0\u8234 123 pages
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236  - Page 108
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NeVQAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nEncUPD4Fo690QHN9YGYBw&ved=0CFsQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Markov random fields and their applications - Page 141}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ross+Kindermann%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Ross Kindermann}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22James+Laurie+Snell%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 James Laurie Snell}}, \uc0\u8234 American Mathematical Society\uc0\u8236 , 1980 - \uc0\u8234 142 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasershtein
\i0 , L.N. (l969) : "Markov processes over 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tgu7AAAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=M0jcUM6ZG-iL0QHdooCwCQ&ved=0CFgQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Publications - Volumes 25-27 - Page 30, 40}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Universit%C3%A9+de+Paris.+Institut+de+statistique%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Universit\'e9 de Paris. Institut de statistique}}
\b0\fs24 \ulnone  1980\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein distance
\b \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1EFEAAAAYAAJ&q=vasserstein&dq=vasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=_0rcUJ3gF7K40AGsyIDwBA&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Biological growth and spread: - Page 144}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 mathematical theories and applications : proceedings of a conference held at Heidelberg, July 16-21, 1979
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Willi J\'e4ger\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Hermann Rost\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Petre T\uc0\u259 utu Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1980 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Science%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Science}} - \uc0\u8234 511 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vasserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs26 \cf0 1981 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dMEaAQAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2kTgUPmaMsS60AGHtoHQDA&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Statistical theory and method abstracts - Volume 22}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22International+Statistical+Institute%22&ei=2kTgUPmaMsS60AGHtoHQDA&ved=0CE0Q9AgwBTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul International Statistical Institute}}
\b0\fs24  - 1981 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  the corresponding versions of the Blackwell-Orey equivalence, and to prove criteria of Dobrushin-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  type. 
\b ...
\b0  and the probability of ultimate extinction is approximated using a 
\i diffusion
\i0  approximation with the backward 
\i diffusion
\i0  
\b ...
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=sv4rAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADhQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Proceedings of the Conference on Probability Theory}} Page 140, 149, 152\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Academia+Republicii+Socialiste+Rom%C3%A2nia.+Centre+of+Mathematical+Statistics%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Academia Republicii Socialiste Rom\'e2nia. Centre of Mathematical Statistics}}
\b0\fs24  - 1981\
The 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  metric, which we denote by Ar, is defined by Ar(n, v) = inf U S(x, y)p(dx, dy) where the infimum is taken over all couplings p. of ^ and 
\b ...
\b0  \
For more facts about the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  metric see 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  (1969) and Dobrushin (1970).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=WTDvAAAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Random fields:  - Page 250}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 rigorous results in statistical mechanics and quantum field theory\uc0\u8236 , Volume 1
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 J. Fritz\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Joel Louis Lebowitz\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 D. Sz\'e1sz\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 North-Holland Pub. Co.\uc0\u8236 , 1981 - \uc0\u8234 1111 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8dBUAAAAYAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=FlTcUPjTBcTB0QGLhoCQCw&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Dobrushin uniqueness techniques and the decay of correlations in ... - Page }}1, 19, 20, 67\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+Michael+Klein%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 David Michael Klein}}
\b0\fs24 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Cornell University, Aug.\uc0\u8236 , 1981 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Science%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Science}} - \uc0\u8234 134 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rp_ONEhaX28C&pg=PA11&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Eight lectures delivered at the Inernational Congress of ... - in Helsinki }}\'a0By G. S. Makanin, Lev I
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 A
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1 kovlevich {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rp_ONEhaX28C&pg=PA11&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul - Page 11}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=KgTvAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Algebraic K-Theory. Evanston 1980: Proceedings of the Conference }}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Held at Northwestern University Evanston, March 24-27, 1980{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=KgTvAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236  - Page 465}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Eric+M.+Friedlander%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Eric M. Friedlander}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michael+R.+Stein%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Michael R. Stein}}\cf4  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Springer\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 May 26, 1981\uc0\u8236  - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Mathematics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics}} - \uc0\u8234 517 pages
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \ul M{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Eoc_AQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CEYQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt ethods of representation theory--with applications to finite }}
\b0\fs30 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 groups and orders
\b\fs48 \uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Eoc_AQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CEYQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul - Page }}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul 77, 81, 129\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Charles+W.+Curtis%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Charles W. Curtis}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Irving+Reiner%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Irving Reiner}}\cf4  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Wiley\uc0\u8236 , 1981 - \uc0\u8234 951 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 1982 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf6 MR0662823
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (83e:00003)
\b0 \cf0  \cf6 \ul \ulc6 Dieudonn\'e9, Jean Alexandre\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1V4-kdN6aGkC&pg=PA181&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQe"}}{\fldrslt A panorama of pure mathematics. A}}s seen by N. Bourbaki. Translated from the French by I. G. Macdonald. \cf6 \ul Pure and Applied Mathematics, 97.\cf0 \ulnone  \

\i Academic Press, Inc. [Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, Publishers], New York-London,
\i0  1982. x+289 pp. ISBN: 0-12-215560-2 \cf6 \ul 00A05.       \
\cf0 \ulnone    p.181 (L. Wasserstein),   p,259 (P.Vaserstein).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jZI7AAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFwQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 IEEE transactions on information theory: Volume 28}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers.+Professional+Technical+Group+on+Information+Theory%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CF0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Professional Technical Group on Information Theory}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers.+Professional+Technical+Group+on+Information+Theory%22&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers.+Information+Theory+Group%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CF4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. Information Theory Group}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers.+Professional+Technical+Group+on+Information+Theory%22&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers.+Information+Theory+Group%22&q=inauthor:%22IEEE+Information+Theory+Group%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CF8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 IEEE Information Theory Group}} - 1982\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0LEvAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAzgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dissertation abstracts international: The sciences and engineering}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2  Page 3294\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22University+Microfilms%22&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&ved=0CEQQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul University Microfilms}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22University+Microfilms%22&q=inauthor:%22University+Microfilms+International%22&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&ved=0CEUQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul University Microfilms International}} - 1982\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=scUZAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCThQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Ecole d'\'e9t\'e9 de probabilit\'e9s de Saint-Flour X--1980: Volume 10, Issue 1980}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  Page 204\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Michel+Bismut%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CGEQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Jean-Michel Bismut}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Michel+Bismut%22&q=inauthor:%22L.+Gross%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CGIQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul L. Gross}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Michel+Bismut%22&q=inauthor:%22L.+Gross%22&q=inauthor:%22Klaus+Krickeberg%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CGMQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Klaus Krickeberg}} - 1982 - 313 pages -\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=RtdUAAAAYAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBDhk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul High temperature differentiability of lattice Gibbs states by Dobrushion uniqueness techniques}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  Page v, 39, 49\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Chetan+Prakash%22&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&ved=0CEoQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Chetan Prakash}}
\b0\fs24  - 1982 - 298 pages -\
Definition of 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  Matrices\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mlYrAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA88&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nFLcUMGgD8KY0QGoi4DYCQ&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 S\'e9minaire d'alg\'e8bre Paul Dubreil et Marie-Paule Malliavin: ... - Page 88}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Tw6UPgAACAAJ&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DlDcUM3kAuSE0QHvo4CwDg&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Units in Whitehead groups of finite groups}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone B{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bruce+Magurn%22"}}{\fldrslt \uc0\u8234 ruce Magurn}}\cf0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Robert+Oliver%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Robert Oliver}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Leonid+Vaserstein%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Leonid Vaserstein}} \uc0\u8234 Matematisk Inst., Univ.\uc0\u8236 , 1982 - \uc0\u8234 56 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Wf_uAAAAMAAJ&q=l.n.wasserstein&dq=l.n.wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4VPcUOGoHuXQ0wGh84HQCg&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Algebraic K-theory - Page 73}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings of a conference, held at Oberwolfach, June 1980\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aOzuAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nFLcUMGgD8KY0QGoi4DYCQ&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Espacios simpl\'e9cticos sobre [beta]-anillos y anillos de Hermite, }}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234  
\fs24 tra[n]svecciones simpl\'e9cticas{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aOzuAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nFLcUMGgD8KY0QGoi4DYCQ&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236  - Page 39}}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 , 68
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=21&mx-pid=697232"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR0697232}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tvsIAQAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=osXcUPzOJfCB0QGP6oDIDQ&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 American men and women of science: The physical and biological }}
\fs24 \uc0\u8234 sciences
\b0 \uc0\u8236 , Volume 7; Volume 15, Issue 7 \uc0\u8234 Bowker\uc0\u8236 , 1982   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tvsIAQAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=osXcUPzOJfCB0QGP6oDIDQ&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  Page 297}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1983 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NhXvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDgQ6AEwATg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Introduction to robust and quasi-robust statistical methods}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2  - Page 205, 226\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22William+J.+J.+Rey%22&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul William J. J. Rey}}
\b0\fs24  - 1983 - 236 pages\
Vasershtein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=l2JKAQAAIAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=AdjkTqb6Iqfk0QH91JzIBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Cabal Seminar 79-81: proceedings, Caltech-UCLA Logic Seminar 1979-81}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 97\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Alexander S. Kechris, D. A. Martin, Y\'edannis N. Moschovakis - 1983 - 284 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs30 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Lecture Notes in Mathematics
\b0\fs24 \uc0\u8236 , Issues 1019-1021\
Vasserstein distance \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Y5GKGpAnU3sC&pg=PA162&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wVXcUOnFEIvO0QGRv4HYDw&ved=0CEUQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Low Dimensional Topology: Proceedings of the Special Session  - Page 162}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone special session on Low Dimensional Topology organized and conducted by Dr. Lomonaco at the American Mathematical Society meeting held in San Francisco, California, January 7-11, 1981.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 Vaserstein
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=og-oAAAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+distance&dq=wasserstein+distance&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XFfcULXtOOzh0wHnhoCQCg&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Semi-infinite programming and applications:  - Page 77, 82}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 an international symposium, Austin, Texas, September 8-10, 1981
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Anthony+V.+Fiacco%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Anthony V. Fiacco}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22K.+O.+Kortanek%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 K. O. Kortanek}} \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1983 - \uc0\u8234 322 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=y0N_NwAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein+distance&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XFfcULXtOOzh0wHnhoCQCg&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \'c9tude et calcul de quelques 
\i \ulnone distances
\i0 \ul  en probabilit\'e9s et }}\cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 statistique et applications
\fs48 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 s\'e9paration asymptotique des cha\'eenes de Markov\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bernard+Garel%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Bernard Garel}}\cf4  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Universit\'e9 scientifique et m\'e9dicale de Grenoble, Institut national polytechnique de Grenoble\uc0\u8236 , 1983 - \uc0\u8234 169 pages\uc0\u8236 \
On \'e9tudie la distance de Prokhorov, la distance de Geffroy et la distance de Fortet-Mourier-Wasserstein.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=HBg4AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA172&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CFwQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Lond Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series. 81 , Skew Fields - Page 172}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone SL (D) = [ A* ,A*] c z ( A) if n \'97 I n ^ 2 (the case n = 1 is covered by 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  Lemma). Indeed, if the latter were false, Lemma 1 would imply that Ej(A) D SLn(D) is a proper normal subgroup of SLn(D), hence (see Theorem 2 in \'a721.) ET(A) fl 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=draxl&s5=skew%20field&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=696937"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf4 MR0696937
\b0 \ul  }}
\b0\fs24  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=59690"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Draxl, P. K.}} Skew fields. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=London_Mathematical_Society_Lecture_Note_Series"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series, 81.}} 
\i Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
\i0  1983. ix+182 pp. ISBN: 0-521-27274-2 (Reviewer: Jean-Pierre Tignol) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=16A39,%2812E15,18F25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 16A39 (12E15 18F25)}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1984   12 books\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wOriFZoWtKMC&pg=PA384&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDgQ6AEwATgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Positive semigroups of operators, and applications - Page 384}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ola+Bratteli%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Ola Bratteli}}
\b0\fs24 , Palle E. T. J\'f8rgensen - 1984 - 188 pages\
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1hfvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBDg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Robust and nonlinear time series analysis:  - Page 221, 22}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul 2, 223
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of a workshop organized by the Sonderforschungsbereich 123 "Stochastische Mathematische Modelle", Heidelberg 1983
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22J%C3%BCrgen+Franke%22&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 J\'fcrgen Franke}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22J%C3%BCrgen+Franke%22&q=inauthor:%22Wolfgang+H%C3%A4rdle%22&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Wolfgang H\'e4rdle}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22J%C3%BCrgen+Franke%22&q=inauthor:%22Wolfgang+H%C3%A4rdle%22&q=inauthor:%22Douglas+Martin%22&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&ved=0CEoQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Douglas Martin}} - 1984 - 286 pages\
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=J5MyAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=29HkTvSHHIba0QGeiNWDBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBDha"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Vortex methods in two-dimensional fluid dynamics}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 36\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carlo+Marchioro%22&ei=29HkTvSHHIba0QGeiNWDBg&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Carlo Marchioro}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carlo+Marchioro%22&q=inauthor:%22Mario+Pulvirenti%22&ei=29HkTvSHHIba0QGeiNWDBg&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mario Pulvirenti}} - 1984 - 137 pages\
Vasershtein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MDUy78NCjy0C&pg=PA140&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wVXcUOnFEIvO0QGRv4HYDw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Quadratic and Hermitian Forms: 1983 - Page 140}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By Carl R. Riehm, Ian Hambleton, Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, McMaster University\
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hkCgw_5wRq4C&pg=PA51&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wVXcUOnFEIvO0QGRv4HYDw&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Linear algebra over commutative rings - Page 51}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By B R McDonald\
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3A2HmLLxa-QC&pg=PA100&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wVXcUOnFEIvO0QGRv4HYDw&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Introduction to Commutative Algebra and Algebraic Geometry - Page 100}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By Ernst Kunz\
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=urrZAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wVXcUOnFEIvO0QGRv4HYDw&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Report PM - Issues 101-110}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Centrum+voor+Wiskunde+en+Informatica+%28Amsterdam,+Netherlands%29.+Afdeling+Zuivere+Wiskunde%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica (Amsterdam, Netherlands). Afdeling Zuivere Wiskunde}}
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wOriFZoWtKMC&pg=PA390&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jlbcUOKVBYPL0AHcsYH4Dg&sqi=2&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Positive Semigroups of Operators and Applications - Page 390}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
O. Bratteli, P.E.T. J\'f8rgensen - 1984\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasershtein
\i0 , L. N.: 'Processes over Denumerable Products of Spaces Describing\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=11DvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jlbcUOKVBYPL0AHcsYH4Dg&sqi=2&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Algebraic K-theory, number theory, geometry, and analysis:  - Page 51, 54, 193, 228}}, 249\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the international conference held at Bielefeld, Federal Republic of Germany, July 26-30, 1982
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
Springer 1984 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Lecture+notes+in+mathematics%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=7"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b0\fs24 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Volume 1046 of Lecture notes in mathematics}}\

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone [6] L.N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 , "Stabilization for the Milnor 
\b ...\

\b0 Vaserstein
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VIjvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KVfcUPaVF7CE0QHKpIGwDw&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Kinetic Theories and the Boltzmann Equation    - Issue 1048 - Page 63}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Lectures Given at the 1st 1981 Session of the Centro Internazionale Matematico Estivo (C.I.M.E.), Held at Montecatini, Italy, June 10-18, 1981\uc0\u8236 , Issue 1048
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Centro+Internazionale+Matematico+Estivo%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Centro Internazionale Matematico Estivo}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1984 - \uc0\u8234 243 pages\uc0\u8236  LNM 1048\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GNlQAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jlbcUOKVBYPL0AHcsYH4Dg&sqi=2&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Cellular automata:  - Page 50, 51}}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of an interdisciplinary workshop, Los Alamos, New Mexico 87545, USA, March 7-11, 1983\uc0\u8236 \
Vasershtein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=BCbvAAAAMAAJ&q=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eWPdULCcN6Xv0QHUo4DwCw&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Stochastic analysis and applications:   - Page 37}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the international conference held in Swansea, April 11-15, 1983
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Aubrey+Truman%22&ei=eWPdULCcN6Xv0QHUo4DwCw&ved=0CDMQ9AgwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Aubrey Truman}}
\b0\fs24 , David Williams - 1984 \
Dobrushin later extended this theorem, replacing the total variation by the 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  distance between probability 
\b ...
\b0  \
If we take the usual metric |c-n| on the real line, the 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  distance of two probability measures n1 , ir\'84 on <3 (F) can\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1985\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PAd92PRY_hsC&pg=PA220&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBzigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Proceedings of the seventh Conference on Probability  - Page 220}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Romania, 1982\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marius+Iosifescu%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CFMQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Marius Iosifescu}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Tiberiu+Postelnicu%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Tiberiu Postelnicu}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Serban+Grigorescu%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CFUQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Serban Grigorescu}} - 1985 - 674 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6XWmAAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=JtjeUPXGBe670QGTlIHYBA&ved=0CFkQ6AEwBzge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Time series in the time domain - Page 125}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Edward+James+Hannan%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CGEQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Edward James Hannan}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Edward+James+Hannan%22&q=inauthor:%22Paruchuri+R.+Krishnaiah%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CGIQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Paruchuri R. Krishnaiah}}, Malempati Madhusudana Rao - 1985 - 490 pages\
Papantoni-Kazakos and Gray (1979) proposed the use of the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance on P(X"). The 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance utilizes a so-called 'per-letter' metric d = d\{xt,\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=I3aNPR1FursC&pg=PA176&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADgo"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Interacting particle systems - Page 176}}\cf2 \ul , 486\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Thomas+Milton+Liggett%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Thomas Milton Liggett}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1985 - 488 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasershtein
\i0 , L. N. 1969 Markov processes over denumerable products of spaces, describing large systems of automata. Problems 
\b ...
\b0  \

\i Vasershtein
\i0 , L. N. and Leontovich, A. M. 1970 Invariant measures of certain Markov operators describing a\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=z8IlAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGIQ6AEwCTg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Science education in global perspective: lessons from five countries}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 187\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Margrete+Siebert+Klein%22&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&ved=0CGMQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Margrete Siebert Klein}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Margrete+Siebert+Klein%22&q=inauthor:%22Floyd+James+Rutherford%22&ei=bc3kTovtF-r40gH41LGMBg&ved=0CGQQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Floyd James Rutherford}} - 1985 - 231 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aQSzAAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBDhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Reviews in K-theory, 1940-84: as printed in Mathematical reviews}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  Page 12, 108\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bruce+A.+Magurn%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Bruce A. Magurn}}
\b0\fs24  - 1985 - 811 pages \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=sXRFAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=RlncUM-VBsnf0gHnyYDAAw&ved=0CDUQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Topology proceedings - Volume 10 - Page 140, 150}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Auburn University Mathematics Department and the Institute for Medicine and Mathematics at Ohio University\uc0\u8236 , 1985\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=OjiaAAAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+metric&dq=Wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lVrcULaFM8XH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Statistics and control of stochastic processes - Volume 2 - Page 377}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vjDvAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+metric&dq=Wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lVrcULaFM8XH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Chetvertai
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65056 
\f1\b a
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65057 
\f1\b  Mezhdunarodnai
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65056 
\f1\b a
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65057 
\f1\b  Vil
\f5\b0 \uc0\u697 
\f1\b ni
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65056 
\f1\b u
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65057 
\f1\b sskai
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65056 
\f1\b a
\f6\b0 \uc0\u65057 
\f1\b  ... - Page 320}}\cf4 \ul , 321\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein metric\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6XWmAAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uFncUOOeOY6J0QHs0YHQAg&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Time series in the time domain - Page 125}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Vasershtein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=n1USAQAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+distance&dq=Wasserstein+distance&hl=en&sa=X&ei=iFvcULW4FYOA0AG-h4HICQ&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Cancer treatment reports - Volume 69, Issues 9-12 - Page 1066}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=993&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1985,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1986&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22National+Institutes+of+Health+%28U.S.%29%22&sa=X&ei=iFvcULW4FYOA0AG-h4HICQ&ved=0CDgQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul National Institutes of Health (U.S.)}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=993&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1985,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1986&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22National+Cancer+Institute+%28U.S.%29%22&sa=X&ei=iFvcULW4FYOA0AG-h4HICQ&ved=0CDkQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul National Cancer Institute (U.S.)}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=993&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1985,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1986&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22National+Cancer+Institute+%28U.S.%29.+Division+of+Cancer+Treatment%22&sa=X&ei=iFvcULW4FYOA0AG-h4HICQ&ved=0CDoQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul National Cancer Institute (U.S.). Division of Cancer Treatment}} - 1985\
A convenient class of distance functions are the so-called LP Wasserstein metrics, p > 1, which can be motivated as follows. 
\b ...
\b0  If Fz and Fw are two such distributions functions, \
then their LP 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  is the minimum of computed for 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oR0ZAQAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+distance&dq=Wasserstein+distance&hl=en&sa=X&ei=iFvcULW4FYOA0AG-h4HICQ&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Quantization - Page 202}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Peter F. Swaszek\uc0\u8236   \uc0\u8234 Van Nostrand Reinhold\uc0\u8236 , 1985 - \uc0\u8234 335 pages
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 Wasserstein distance
\b \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 1986   17 items\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JYQgAQAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+statistics&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4UvoUMiVFO2G0QGOuoGoAQ&ved=0CFQQ6AEwBjgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Regression trees based on rank 
\i \ulnone statistics
\i0 \ul  - Page 22}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mark+Robert+Segal%22&ei=4UvoUMiVFO2G0QGOuoGoAQ&ved=0CFYQ9AgwBjgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Mark Robert Segal}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Stanford University, 1986\uc0\u8236   146 pp\
 Instead of using two-sample 
\i statistics
\i0 , their splitting criteria utilizes 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  
\b metrics.
\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rziJHx6OQPkC&pg=PA67&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwATjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul The IMA volumes in mathematics and its applications - Page 67}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22University+of+Minnesota.+Institute+for+Mathematics+and+Its+Applications%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 University of Minnesota. Institute for Mathematics and Its Applications}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1986 - 394 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=BAWnAAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uFncUOOeOY6J0QHs0YHQAg&ved=0CEEQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Markov processes: characterization and convergence - Page 273}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Stewart+N.+Ethier%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Stewart N. Ethier}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Stewart+N.+Ethier%22&q=inauthor:%22Thomas+G.+Kurtz%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Thomas G. Kurtz}} - Willey 1986, 2005  - 534 pages  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.scribd.com/doc/95650132/Ethier-S-N-Kurtz-T-G-Markov-Processes-Characterization-and-Convergence"}}{\fldrslt online}}\
The notion of duality given by (4.36) was developed first in the context of infinite particle systems by 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  (I969), 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  and Leontovitch (I970),\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fSozEeU3-EQC&pg=PA179&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBDge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Differential analysis in infinite dimensional spaces: proceedings of AMS Special Session held August 8 - 10, 1983 - Page 179}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 180\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kondagunta+Sundaresan%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CEwQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Kondagunta Sundaresan}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kondagunta+Sundaresan%22&q=inauthor:%22Srinivasa+Swaminathan%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Srinivasa Swaminathan}}, American Mathematical Society  Cont Math 54, - 1986 - 122 pages\
It is not difficult to show that relative to the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  metric (see, e.g., [BF] for definition and basic properties),\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JWJRPSMoqdYC&pg=PA179&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBTge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Random matrices and their applications: proceedings of the Research Conference held June 17 - 23, 1984\'df - Page 179}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 180\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joel+E.+Cohen%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CFIQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Joel E. Cohen}}
\b0\fs24 , Harry Kesten, Charles Michael Newman - 1986 - 358 pages  AMS Cont Math 50\
It is not difficult to show that relative to the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  metric (see, e.g., [BF] for\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_-nuAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eljcULDFIYjO0QHNtoHgCg&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Group theory, Beijing 1984: - Page 100, 117}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 278\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings of an International symposium held in Beijing, Aug. 27-Sep. 8, 1984\uc0\u8236 \
\uc0\u8234 Tuan Hsio-Fu\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 Springer\uc0\u8236 , 1986 - \uc0\u8234 403 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Z4RLAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eljcULDFIYjO0QHNtoHgCg&ved=0CF8Q6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul London Mathematical Society lecture note series - Issues 121-122 - Page 14, 26}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 29\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone 1986 L.N. Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=AAsZAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eljcULDFIYjO0QHNtoHgCg&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Algebra, mathematical logic, number theory, topology:  - Page 167}}, 169, 175
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 collection of survey papers : on the 50th anniversary of the institute\uc0\u8236 , Volume 168
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ivan+Matveevich+Vinogradov%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Ivan Matveevich Vinogradov}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  \uc0\u8234 American Mathematical Society\uc0\u8236 , 1986 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Mathematics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics}} - \uc0\u8234 266 pages\uc0\u8236 \
L.N. Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=iWxTHYvoMIIC&pg=PA55&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eljcULDFIYjO0QHNtoHgCg&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 13 Papers in Algebra and Number Theory - Page 55}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By Lev I
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 A
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1 kovlevich Le\uc0\u301 fman\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Zhuk_I_K&arg9=I._K._Zhuk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 I. K. Zhuk}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Slavutskii_I_Sh&arg9=I._Sh._Slavutski%C4%AD"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 I. Sh. Slavutski\uc0\u301 }}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Lipnitskii_V_A&arg9=V._A._Lipnitski%C4%AD"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 V. A. Lipnitski\uc0\u301 }}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Chernousov_V_I&arg9=V._I._Chernousov"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 V. I. Chernousov}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Adamovich_O_M&arg9=O._M._Adamovich"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 O. M. Adamovich}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Drozd_Yu_A&arg9=Yu._A._Drozd"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 Yu. A. Drozd}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Bondarenko_V_M&arg9=V._M._Bondarenko"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 V. M. Bondarenko}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Zavadskii_A_G&arg9=A._G._Zavadski%C4%AD"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 A. G. Zavadski\uc0\u301 }}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Nazarova_L_A&arg9=L._A._Nazarova"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 L. A. Nazarova}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Turchin_V_M&arg9=V._M._Turchin"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 V. M. Turchin}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Komrakov_B_P&arg9=B._P._Komrakov"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 B. P. Komrakov}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Premet_A_A&arg9=A._A._Premet"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 A. A. Premet}}, \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Pirashvili_T_I&arg9=T._I._Pirashvili"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 T. I. Pirashvili}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Chunikhin_S_A&arg9=S._A._Chunikhin"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 S. A. Chunikhin}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Kirilyuk_A_A&arg9=A._A._Kirilyuk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 A. A. Kirilyuk}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Rud%27ko_V_P&arg9=V._P._Rud%27ko"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 V. P. Rud'ko}}, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/cgi-bin/bookstore/booksearch?fn=100&pg1=CN&s1=Rapinchuk_A_S&arg9=A._S._Rapinchuk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 A. S. Rapinchuk}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XZv_cQ6WEjQC&pg=PA226&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eljcULDFIYjO0QHNtoHgCg&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Algebraic Geometry and Its Applications: Tp\uc0\u1091 \u1076 \u1099  \u1054 \u1088 \u1076 \u1077 \u1085 \u1072  \u1051 \u1077 \u1085 \u1080 \u1085 \u1072  ... - Page 226}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/Algebraic-Applications-Proceedings-Institute-Mathematics/dp/0821830929/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1356860598&sr=1-1&keywords=0821830929"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 (Proceedings of the Steklov Institute of Mathematics)}}\cf0 \ulnone  by S. M. Nikolskii and E. A. Volkov (Oct 1986)\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kRzvAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eljcULDFIYjO0QHNtoHgCg&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Geometric methods in operator algebras - Page 237}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the US-Japan seminar, Kyoto, July 1983\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Huzihiro+Araki%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Huzihiro Araki}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Edward+G.+Effros%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Edward G. Effros}} \uc0\u8234 Longman Scientific & Technical\uc0\u8236 , 1986 - \uc0\u8234 439 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9KwnAQAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uFncUOOeOY6J0QHs0YHQAg&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Automation and remote control - Volume 47;  - Page 692}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=993&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1985,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1986&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Consultants+Bureau%22&sa=X&ei=uFncUOOeOY6J0QHs0YHQAg&ved=0CFMQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Consultants Bureau}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=993&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1985,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1986&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Consultants+Bureau+Enterprises%22&sa=X&ei=uFncUOOeOY6J0QHs0YHQAg&ved=0CFQQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Consultants Bureau Enterprises}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=993&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1985,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1986&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Massachusetts+Institute+of+Technology%22&sa=X&ei=uFncUOOeOY6J0QHs0YHQAg&ved=0CFUQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Massachusetts Institute of Technology}} - 1986\
L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  and E. B. Sherman, "Problems of forming variants in development and specialization of industrial plants in problems of optimum industrial planning," \
Review information, TS-30. Economic-mathematical modeling [in Russian], 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7QqoAAAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+metric&dq=Wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lVrcULaFM8XH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Empirical processes with applications to statistics - Page 62}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 63, 933\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Galen+R.+Shorack%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Galen R. Shorack}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jon+A.+Wellner%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Jon A. Wellner}}\cf4  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Wiley\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 May 7, 1986\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 938 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kodVAAAAYAAJ&q=Wasserstein+metric&dq=Wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lVrcULaFM8XH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Mathematical programming study - Issues 26-30 - Page 182}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 North-Holland Publishing Company\uc0\u8236 , 1986\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=H0-xAAAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+metric&dq=Wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lVrcULaFM8XH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Duality in stochastic linear and dynamic programming - Page 218}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Willem+K.+Klein+Haneveld%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Willem K. Klein Haneveld}}
\b0\fs24 \ulnone   \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1986 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Business+%26+Economics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Business & Economics}} - \uc0\u8234 295 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=d-LxAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+metric&dq=Wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lVrcULaFM8XH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CGEQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Probability and mathematical statistics - Volumes 7-9 - Page 113}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Pa\uc0\u324 stwowe Wydawnictwo Naukowe\uc0\u8236 , 1986\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rmNaOAAACAAJ&dq=Wasserstein+distance&hl=en&sa=X&ei=iFvcULW4FYOA0AG-h4HICQ&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul On the 
\i \ulnone Distance
\i0 \ul  between Mixed Poisson and Poisson Distributions}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Dietmar+Pfeifer%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Dietmar Pfeifer}}
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 Defense Technical Information Center\uc0\u8236 , 1985 - \uc0\u8234 20 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Estimations and asymptotic expansions for several distances between mixed Poisson and Poisson distributions are given, such as the total variation distance, the \
Kolmogrov distance and a specific Wasserstein distance (Fortet-Mourier distance). As an example, the author generalizes and improve results of Vervaat (1969) \
on the total variation distance between negative binomial and Poisson\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1987  12 books\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jN6tnsBU_IMC&printsec=frontcover&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2AbnUImhCPG10AGfnYDQCQ&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \ulc7 Theory of Linear Operations: S. Banach ; }}
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \ulc7 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone English Translation by F. Jellett 
\fs24 \uc0\u8234 Elsevier\uc0\u8236 , 1987 - \uc0\u8234 237 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Yuri I Lyubich, Leonid N 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  - 1993 - Geometriae Dedicata 
\b ...
\b0 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0DUXym7QWfYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SQfnUJmhO8ep0AHSjoCACQ&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Linear Algebra}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Serge+Lang%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Serge Lang}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Springer\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Jan 26, 1987\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 296 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NvRSAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SQfnUJmhO8ep0AHSjoCACQ&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Introduction to signals and systems}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Edward+W.+Kamen%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Edward W. Kamen}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Macmillan Pub. Co.\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Jan 1, 1987\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 634 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aM9UAAAAYAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SQfnUJmhO8ep0AHSjoCACQ&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Integer matrices as sums of squares ; and, Matrices as sums of kth }}powers\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+R.+Richman%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 David R. Richman}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Centre+for+Research+in+Algebra+and+Related+Fields%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Centre for Research in Algebra and Related Fields}}\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 Carleton University, Mathematics and Statistics\uc0\u8236 , 1987 - \uc0\u8234 15 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=koZRAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=pAfnUJCKIJDq0QG0y4GQDA&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Probability, random variables, and random signal principles}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peyton+Z.+Peebles%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Peyton Z. Peebles}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 McGraw-Hill\uc0\u8236 , 1987 - \uc0\u8234 349 pages\cf4 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Ix7vAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=O7vcUISmCci80QGH54CAAw&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Statistical data analysis based on the L1-norm and related methods - Page 181}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Yadolah+Dodge%22&ei=TsfkToSfF4Hy0gGX2uDqBQ&ved=0CGMQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Yadolah Dodge}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1987 - 464 pages\
It has origins in the papers of Kantorovich [lo] and 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  [23] and it was introduced to mathematical statistics by Sudakov [17] and Zolotarev [24] 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=FgF8AAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBDhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul The status of Soviet civil science: }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul - Page 38
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the Symposium on Soviet Scientific Research, NATO Headquarters, Brussels, Belgium, September 24-26, 1986
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Craig+Sinclair%22&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&ved=0CEYQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Craig Sinclair}}
\b0\fs24  - \uc0\u8234 M. Nijhoff\uc0\u8236 , 1987 -- \uc0\u8234 289 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=f6zvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Percolation theory and ergodic theory of infinite particle systems}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 126\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Harry+Kesten%22&sa=X&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&ved=0CEAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Harry Kesten}}
\b0\fs24  - 1987 - 323 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kAjvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Number theory :}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul - Page 357\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the 1985 Montreal conference held June 17-29, 1985\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22H.+Kisilevsky%22&sa=X&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&ved=0CEUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 H. Kisilevsky}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22H.+Kisilevsky%22&q=inauthor:%22J.+Labute%22&sa=X&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&ved=0CEYQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul J. Labute}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22H.+Kisilevsky%22&q=inauthor:%22J.+Labute%22&q=inauthor:%22Canadian+Mathematical+Society%22&sa=X&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&ved=0CEcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Canadian Mathematical Society}} - 1987 - 466 pages\
Vaserstein;s theorem\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9APyAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=i9rkToa1D4nq0gHo6YDsBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Statistics & decisions: Volume 5}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul   1987 
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Akademische Verlagsgesellschaft\uc0\u8236 , 1987
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=4gjvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+distance&dq=wasserstein+distance&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qLzcUMyxFO-x0QGsg4H4AQ&ved=0CDYQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 New perspectives in theoretical and applied statistics - Page 447}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Madan+Lal+Puri%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Madan Lal Puri}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jos%C3%A9+P%C3%A9rez+Vilaplana%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Jos\'e9 P\'e9rez Vilaplana}} \uc0\u8234 Wiley\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Mar 12, 1987\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 544 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=KtUvW0__-7kC&pg=PA29&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eljcULDFIYjO0QHNtoHgCg&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Proceedings of Groups: St. Andrew's 1985 - Page 3, 14, 29}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 262\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0edited by E. F. Robertson, Colin Matthew
\fs4  
\fs28 (London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series 121)\

\fs24 Cambridge University Press (February 27, 1987)\
L.N. Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1988  20 books\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=G14iHQAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+space+-wendy+-bruce&hl=en&sa=X&ei=GwbnUMv6PIjx0wGv7IDICA&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul Classical Dirichlet forms on topological vector spaces }}
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Closability and a Cameron-Martin Formula
\f0\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Albeverio%22&sa=X&ei=GwbnUMv6PIjx0wGv7IDICA&ved=0CDwQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf7 \ul Sergio Albeverio}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michael+R%C3%B6ckner%22&sa=X&ei=GwbnUMv6PIjx0wGv7IDICA&ved=0CD0Q9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \ul Michael R\'f6ckner}} - 1988 
\f1  - \uc0\u8234 53 pages
\f0 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&lr=&oi=books&cluster=5823417656345525342"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs20 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \uc0\u8234 Contractions in the 2-Wasserstein Length Space and Thermalization ...}}
\f1\b\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Jos\'e9 A Carrillo, Robert J McCann, C\'e9dric Villani\uc0\u8236  - 2006 - \uc0\u8234 Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis
\f0 \uc0\u8236 \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=DPvctgAACAAJ&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2AbnUImhCPG10AGfnYDQCQ&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul Normal subgroups of gauge groups}}
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22L.+N.+Vaserstein%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 L. N. Vaserstein}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Max-Planck-Inst. f. Mathematik\uc0\u8236 , 1988 - \uc0\u8234 26 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_-9PHQAACAAJ&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2AbnUImhCPG10AGfnYDQCQ&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Normal subgroups of symplectic groups over rings}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22L.+N.+Vaserstein%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 L. N. Vaserstein}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Max-Planck-Inst. f. Mathematik\uc0\u8236 , 1988 - \uc0\u8234 34 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oJpVAAAAYAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SQfnUJmhO8ep0AHSjoCACQ&ved=0CDcQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 Annual report - Page 43}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cornell+University.+Dept.+of+Mathematics%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Cornell University. Dept. of Mathematics}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone  1988\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Z_QYAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SQfnUJmhO8ep0AHSjoCACQ&ved=0CEEQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul An introduction to linear programming and game theory}}
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Paul+R.+Thie%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Paul R. Thie}}
\f1\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone   \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Wiley\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Mar 8, 1988\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 396 pages
\f0\b\fs28 \cf7 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:0691.60031&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 0691.60031}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:fiebig.doris"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Fiebig, Doris}}
\b   \'dcber very weak Bernoulli-Prozesse mit schnellen Raten. (On very weak Bernoulli processes with fast rates).
\b0  (German)\
G\'f6ttingen: Univ. G\'f6ttingen, Math.-Naturwiss., Diss. 77 S. (1988). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*60G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *60G10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:28D05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 28D05}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:E.Slud"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul E.Slud}}
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:0659.60044&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 0659.60044}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:kirschfink.heribert"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Kirschfink, Heribert}}
\b   Konvergenz von Verteilungen von Summen abh\'e4ngiger Zufallsvariablen in verschiedenen Wahrscheinlichkeitsmetriken mit Ordnungen.\
(Convergence of distributions of sums of dependent random variables in different probability metrics with order).
\b0  (German)\
Aachen (FRG): Technische Hochschule Aachen, Mathematisch- Naturwissenschaftliche Fakult\'e4t, viii, 121 S. (1988). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*60F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *60F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:60B10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 60B10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:60B05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 60B05}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:L.Hahn"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul L.Hahn}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=14&mx-pid=978631"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ulnone MR0978631
\b0 \ul  }}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=98640"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Karpilovsky, Gregory}} Unit groups of classical rings. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Oxford_Science_Publications"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Oxford Science Publications.}} 
\i The Clarendon Press, Oxford University Press, New York,
\i0  1988. xiv+370 pp. ISBN: 0-19-853557-0 (Reviewer: Carl Riehm) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=20C05,%2811R27,11R33,12E15,16A25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 20C05 (11R27 11R33 12E15 16A25)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NXex5lIAfV0C&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=O7vcUISmCci80QGH54CAAw&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 Probability, random processes, and ergodic properties - Page 283, 288, 295}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JZTaZwEACAAJ&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wLvcUPzmBrTh0wGPi4C4DA&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul On a formula for the L_p 
\i \ulnone Wasserstein metric
\i0 \ul  between messures on }}\uc0\u8234 Euclidean and Hilbert spaces
\fs48 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Matthias+Gelbrich%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Matthias Gelbrich}}
\b0\fs24   \uc0\u8234 Humboldt-Univ., Sekt. Mathematik\uc0\u8236 , 1988 - \uc0\u8234 26 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=a_Y_AQAAIAAJ&q=vasserstein&dq=vasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=5rrcULnKL-it0AHf0YHADQ&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \'c9cole d'\'e9t\'e9 de probabilit\'e9s de Saint-Flour XV-XVII, 1985-87 - Page 193}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Persi+Diaconis%22&sa=X&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Persi Diaconis}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Persi+Diaconis%22&q=inauthor:%22David+Elworthy%22&sa=X&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&ved=0CDoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul David Elworthy}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Persi+Diaconis%22&q=inauthor:%22David+Elworthy%22&q=inauthor:%22Paul-Louis+Hennequin%22&sa=X&ei=99nkTuTmHcrY0QHNoZ3BBQ&ved=0CDsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Paul-Louis Hennequin}} - 1988 - 459 pages\
For two probability measures n and v on S \'ab C[0,1] , let iJfdn-Jfdv) R(M,w) = sup denote the 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  distance as in Ch. I (2.18);
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LKvvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wLvcUPzmBrTh0wGPi4C4DA&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Group representations in probability and statistics - Page 110}}
\b\fs28  
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Persi+Diaconis%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Persi Diaconis}} \uc0\u8234 Institute of Mathematical Statistics\uc0\u8236 , 1988 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Mathematics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics}} - \uc0\u8234 198 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=uWpeuc2fuM8C&q=wasserstein+metric&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wLvcUPzmBrTh0wGPi4C4DA&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Journal of statistical planning and inference - Page 5}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 6, 22\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 North Holland\uc0\u8236 , 1988\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-ULvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=i9rkToa1D4nq0gHo6YDsBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Reviews in partial differential equations, 1980-86, }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 1519\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 as printed in Mathematical reviews
\fs24 \uc0\u8236 , Volume 1
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22American+Mathematical+Society%22&ei=i9rkToa1D4nq0gHo6YDsBQ&ved=0CFAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 American Mathematical Society}}
\b0\fs24  - 1988 - 3998 pages\
Funaki, Tadahisa (J-NAGO) A certain class of 
\i diffusion
\i0  processes associated with nonlinear parabolic equations. 
\b ...
\b0  op(ui,uj) is a 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  type metric between U|,uj using pth moments and k(r) is a function with / dr/fc2(\\/f) divergent at zero.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=2JBFAAAAYAAJ&pg=PA380&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=i9rkToa1D4nq0gHo6YDsBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CF8Q6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Encyclopedia of statistical sciences: Volume 9}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1987,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1988&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Samuel+Kotz%22&ei=i9rkToa1D4nq0gHo6YDsBQ&ved=0CGAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Samuel Kotz}}
\b0\fs24 , Norman Lloyd Johnson, Campbell B. Read - 1988\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_SvJ6YjoWSkC&pg=PA96&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nLncUIXvNc6J0QGo_4CQDw&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Logarithmic Descriptions of Whitehead Groups and Class Groups for p-Groups - Page 96}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone By Robert Oliver, Larry Taylor\

\b Memoirs of the American Mathematical Society
\b0  1988; 97 pp; softcover Volume: 76\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tgo4AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA54&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nLncUIXvNc6J0QGo_4CQDw&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Operator Algebras and Applications: Structure theory, K-theory, Geometry and Topology  - Page 54}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0edited by David E. Evans, Masamichi Takesaki\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8Tw4AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA34&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nLncUIXvNc6J0QGo_4CQDw&ved=0CF8Q6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Whitehead Groups of Finite Groups - Page 34}}, 35, 56, 241, 343, 349\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By Robert Oliver\
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Qggwqur6KRwC&pg=PA26&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nLncUIXvNc6J0QGo_4CQDw&ved=0CGUQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Ring theory. 2 (1988) - Page 26}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By Louis Halle Rowen\
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5cc-AQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=dLrcULuMEou70AGQwYHYDg&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Memoirs of the American Mathematical Society - Volumes 392-397 - Page 96}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone MR{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Oliver%2Cr%2A&s5=description&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=938472"}}{\fldrslt 0938472
\b0 \ul  }}
\b0 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=191965"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Oliver, Robert}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=171230"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Taylor, Laurence R.}} Logarithmic descriptions of Whitehead groups and class groups for $p$-groups. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Mem_Amer_Math_Soc"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Mem. Amer. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=47975"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 76 (1988), no. 392,}} vi+97 pp. (Reviewer: Bruce A. Magurn) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=18F25,%2819A22,19A31,19B28%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 18F25 (19A22 19A31 19B28)}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\b \cf0 1989     19 books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=39EjHAAACAAJ&dq=Matthias+Gelbrich++wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=RHTgUJeLI-Lo0gGL_YDoBw&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Lp-
\i \ulnone Wasserstein
\i0 \ul -Metriken [Lp-
\i \ulnone Wasserstein
\i0 \ul -Metriken] und }}
\f1\b\fs28 \uc0\u8234  Approximationen stochastischer Differentialgleichungen\cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Matthias+Gelbrich%22&ei=RHTgUJeLI-Lo0gGL_YDoBw&ved=0CDwQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Matthias Gelbrich}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Matthias+Gelbrich%22&ei=RHTgUJeLI-Lo0gGL_YDoBw&ved=0CD0Q9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Matthias Gelbrich}} - 1989
\b\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YZ2pEML6rQUC&pg=PA519&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEIQ6AEwBTiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Algebraic K-theory: connections with geometry and topology - Page 519}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 549\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22J.+F.+Jardine%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CEMQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 J. F. Jardine}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Victor+Percy+Snaith%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CEQQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Victor Percy Snaith}} - 1989 - 550 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PXQE5mVumiEC&pg=PA449&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OMLcUNSEGezH0AGx3IC4DQ&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\b \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Algebraic K-Theory and Algebraic Number Theory: Proceedings of a }}
\b\fs26 Seminar
\fs36  
\fs26 held Januaey 12 -16, 1987{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PXQE5mVumiEC&pg=PA449&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OMLcUNSEGezH0AGx3IC4DQ&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 - Page 449}}
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \
AMS Cont Math 83
\f1\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \'a0By Michael R. Stein, R. Keith Dennis
\f2\b \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ODzJNEbVJcwC&pg=PA198&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OMLcUNSEGezH0AGx3IC4DQ&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2 \cf3 \ul Classical Groups and Related Topics: Proceedings of a Conference .in Honor of L.K. Hua - Page 198}}
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
AMS Cont Math 82
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone R.K. Dennis, B. Magum and L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , 0eneralized Euclidean group rings, J.Reine Ang. Math. 35l (l9s4), ll3-l2s 
\b ...
\f2\b0 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=C7rZAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OMLcUNSEGezH0AGx3IC4DQ&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Report PM - Issues 71-80}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Penn State, Department of Mathematics\uc0\u8236 , 1989
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=s9F71NJxwzoC&pg=PP8&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IcPcUNLhGNKx0AHv9oG4Bg&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Encyclopaedia of Mathematics (4)}} 1989\
L.N. Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tF-4AAAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Theory of statistical inference and information}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4  - Page 10, 98, 111\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul I{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Igor+Vajda%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CDsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt gor Vajda}}\cf0 \ulnone  - 1989 - 432 pages\
Vasershtein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yMz9fW8JgiwC&pg=PA430&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CFcQ6AEwBjge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Model theoretic algebra: with particular emphasis on fields, rings, modules  - Page 425, 430}}
\b\fs28   \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Christian+U.+Jensen%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CFgQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Christian U. Jensen}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Christian+U.+Jensen%22&q=inauthor:%22Helmut+Lenzing%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Helmut Lenzing}} - 1989 - 443 pages\
[189] A. A. Suslin and L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 . Serre's problem on projective modules over polynomial rings and algebraic K-theory. Izv. Akad. Nauk. SSSR,\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=WhqoAAAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j7_cUK7TO5DE0AGG4YDgDQ&ved=0CEsQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\b \cf3 \ul Stochastic analysis, path integration, and dynamics: - Page 57}}
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 emanations from "Summer Stochastics", Warwick 1987
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22K.+D.+Elworthy%22&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&ved=0CFcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul K. D. Elworthy}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22K.+D.+Elworthy%22&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Claude+Zambrini%22&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&ved=0CFgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jean-Claude Zambrini}} - 1989 - 265 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YkvvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CGMQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Dynamical systems and ergodic theory}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 40\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Karol+Krzy%C5%BCewski%22&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&ved=0CGQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Karol Krzy\uc0\u380 ewski}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Karol+Krzy%C5%BCewski%22&q=inauthor:%22Instytut+Matematyczny+%28Polska+Akademia+Nauk%29%22&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&ved=0CGUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Instytut Matematyczny (Polska Akademia Nauk)}} - 1989 - 479 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=w-LxAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j7_cUK7TO5DE0AGG4YDgDQ&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\b \cf3 \ul Probability and mathematical statistics - Volumes 10-11 - Page 312}}
\f2\b \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2\b \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CUfvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4sDcUIDMNJHW0gG-toG4Ag&ved=0CDkQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Stability Problems for Stochastic Models:  - Page 170}}
\f1\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the 11th International Seminar Held in Sukhumi (Abkhazian Autonomous Republic) USSR, Sept. 25-Oct. 1, 1987\uc0\u8236 , Issue 1412
\f2\b \cf3 \ul \

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein distance
\f2\b \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Hj1VAAAAYAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4sDcUIDMNJHW0gG-toG4Ag&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Technical report series of the Laboratory for Research in Statistics and Probability - Issues 131-140 - Page 3}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Laboratory, Carleton University, 1989
\f2\b \cf3 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein distance      First International Conference on Stochastic Geometry,
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=UrN_CvYtqCsC&pg=PA347&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OMLcUNSEGezH0AGx3IC4DQ&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Representation Theory, Group Rings, and Coding Theory: Papers in Jonor of S.D. Berman (1922-1987) - Page 347}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone Irving Martin Isaacs - 1989 AMS Cont Math 93\
L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , The structure of classic arithmetic groups of rank greater than one, Math. USSR Sbornik 20 (1973), 465-492.
\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ZnpLAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=RMTcUIezGImW0QG1zYDQDg&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBzge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 London Mathematical Society lecture note series - Issues 134-135 - Page 32}}
\b , 51
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=weruAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein%27s&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ulc4 The classical groups and K-theory - Page 519}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 We point out that 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  theory
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=10&mx-pid=1007302"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \cf4 \ulnone MR1007302
\b0 \ul  }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=79565"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf4 \ulc4 Hahn, Alexander J.}}
\f1 \cf0 \ulnone ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=510428"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 O'Meara, O. Timothy}} The classical groups and $K$-theory. With a foreword by J. Dieudonn\'e9.\
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Grundlehren_der_Mathematischen_Wissenschaften"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Grundlehren der Mathematischen Wissenschaften [Fundamental Principles of Mathematical Sciences], 291.}} 
\i Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
\i0  1989. xvi+576 pp. ISBN: 3-540-17758-2 (Reviewer: James E. Humphreys) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=20-02,%2811E57,19-02,20G15,20H25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 20-02 (11E57 19-02 20G15 20H25)}}
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_L4SAQAAMAAJ&q=Arratia++Wasserstein&dq=Arratia++Wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=_N7iULf5KbG30QHM7IGIBw&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 IMS bulletin - Volume 18, Issues 102-107 - Page 86}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Mathematical+Statistics%22&ei=_N7iULf5KbG30QHM7IGIBw&ved=0CEAQ9AgwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 nstitute of Mathematical Statistics}}
\b0\fs24  - 1989 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Uniform large deviation property of the empirical process of a Markov chain R. 
\i ARRATIA
\i0  & M.S. WATERMAN: The 
\b ...
\b0  urn models Juan Antonio CUESTA: Notes on the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric in Hilbert spaces Articles STATISTICAL SCIENCE a 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=11&mx-pid=999391"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR0999391}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4  P\cf0 \ulnone roceedings of Research Symposium on $K$-Theory and its Applications. Held at the University of Ibadan, Ibadan, August 10\'9615, 1987. Edited by A. O. Kuku and C. Weibel. $K$-Theory 2 (1989), no. 5. 
\i This is a Historical Journal, Ann Arbor, MI,
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=35739"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 1989. }}pp. i\'96ii and 557\'96673. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=18-06,%2819-06%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 18-06 (19-06)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=12&mx-pid=991972"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR0991972
\b0 \ul  }}\cf4  A\cf0 lgebraic $K$-theory and algebraic number theory. Proceedings of the seminar held in Honolulu, Hawaii, January 12\'9616, 1987. Edited by Michael R. Stein and R. Keith Dennis. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Contemporary_Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Contemporary Mathematics, 83.}} 
\i American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI,
\i0  1989. xiv+488 pp. ISBN: 0-8218-5090-3 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=18F25,%2819-06%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 18F25 (19-06)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\qc

\b \cf0 1990   15 books
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/591317"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf0 Duality theorems for Kantorovich-Rubinstein and Wasserstein functionals }}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs28 \cf0 S.T. Rachev and R.M. Shortt. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books/about/Duality_Theorems_for_Kantorovich_Rubinst.html?id=KawASgAACAAJ"}}{\fldrslt  google books}}
\fs24 \
Warszawa : Pa\uc0\u324 stwowe Wydawn. Naukowe, 1990. 39 pp  ISBN 8301099704 9788301099701\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:0718.60057&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Zbl 0718.60057}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:gelbrich.matthias"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Gelbrich, Matthias}}
\b   L$\{\}\\sp p$-Wasserstein-Metriken und Approximationen stochastischer Differentialgleichungen. $(L\\sp p$ \
Wasserstein metrics and approximations of stochastic differential equations).
\b0  (German)  Berlin: Humboldt-Universit\'e4t Berlin, Mathematisch- Naturwissenschaftliche Fakult\'e4t, \
Diss. 77 S. (1990). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*60H10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *60H10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:60B10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 60B10}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:M.Gelbrich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul M.Gelbrich}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jhJbJvVaD-wC&pg=PA388&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAjgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Probability theory and mathematical statistics: proceedings of the fifth Vilnus conference: Volume 1 - Page 142, 388}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bronius+Grigelionis%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Bronius Grigelionis}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1990 - 646 pages\
Now we define the so-called 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  metric between two probability measures\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0yzvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=wtvkTvDoJ-fi0QGhu7zdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Number-Theoretic Analysis Seminar, Vienna, 1988-89}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Edmund+Hlawka%22&sa=X&ei=wtvkTvDoJ-fi0QGhu7zdBQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Edmund Hlawka}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Edmund+Hlawka%22&q=inauthor:%22Robert+F.+Tichy%22&sa=X&ei=wtvkTvDoJ-fi0QGhu7zdBQ&ved=0CD8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Robert F. Tichy}} - 1990 - 220 pages\
We so get the rate of convergence of a sample path to with regard to the 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  metric cf. [14]: The 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  distance 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MvdQAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul System modelling and optimization}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 690, 695, 696
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the 14th IFIP-Conference, Leipzig, GDR, July 3-7, 1989
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hans-J%C3%BCrgen+Sebastian%22&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&ved=0CFAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Hans-J\'fcrgen Sebastian}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hans-J%C3%BCrgen+Sebastian%22&q=inauthor:%22K.+Tammer%22&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&ved=0CFEQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul K. Tammer}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hans-J%C3%BCrgen+Sebastian%22&q=inauthor:%22K.+Tammer%22&q=inauthor:%22International+Federation+of+Automatic+Control%22&ei=8dvkTr2bAujZ0QH4qeHDAg&ved=0CFIQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul International Federation of Automatic Control}} - 1990 - 960 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yorJG_cm-vkC&pg=PA105&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=ptzkTtTMNMLr0QGI0tD9BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDYQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul S\'e9minaire de math\'e9matiques Rouen: Comptes rendus des s\'e9ances: - Page 105}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 septembre 1988-juin 1989
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1989,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1990&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Universit%C3%A9+de+Rouen.+Laboratoire+d%27analyse+et+mod%C3%A8les+stochastiques%22&ei=ptzkTtTMNMLr0QGI0tD9BQ&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Universit\'e9 de Rouen. Laboratoire d'analyse et mod\'e8les stochastiques}}
\b0\fs24  - 1990 - 180 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN2877750175, 9782877750172\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JVvxAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=ptzkTtTMNMLr0QGI0tD9BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Les Annales des sciences math\'e9matiques du Qu\'e9bec: Volumes 14-15}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul   1990 - Page 33\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Centre de Recherches Math\'e9matiques, Universit\'e9 de Montr\'e9al\uc0\u8236 , 1990\
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=X89UAAAAYAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j7_cUK7TO5DE0AGG4YDgDQ&ved=0CFcQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ulc3 Uppsala abstracts:  - Page 143}}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 abstracts of papers presented in Uppsala, Sweden, 13-18 August 1990
\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf4 \ulnone B{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bernoulli+Society+for+Mathematical+Statistics+and+Probability.+World+Congress%22"}}{\fldrslt \uc0\u8234 ernoulli Society for Mathematical Statistics and Probability. World Congress}}\cf0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Mathematical+Statistics.+Meeting%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Institute of Mathematical Statistics. Meeting}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 The Institute of Mathematical Statistics and the Bernoulii Society for Mathematical Statistics and Probability\uc0\u8236 , 1990 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=subject:%22Mathematics%22&source=gbs_ge_summary_r&cad=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics}} - \uc0\u8234 216 pages\uc0\u8236  \
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6llFAQAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j7_cUK7TO5DE0AGG4YDgDQ&ved=0CGAQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Bulletin / Institute of Mathematical Statistics - Volume 19 - Page 412}}\
1990\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein distance
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yorJG_cm-vkC&pg=PA105&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4sDcUIDMNJHW0gG-toG4Ag&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 S\'e9minaire de math\'e9matiques Rouen: Comptes rendus des s\'e9ances }}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone septembre 1988
\fs48  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yorJG_cm-vkC&pg=PA105&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4sDcUIDMNJHW0gG-toG4Ag&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul  - Page 105}}
\f2\fs24 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0 \cf0 \ulnone 1990\
Cette distance, dite ici 
\i de Wasserstein
\i0 , se g\'e9n\'e9ralise aux espaces lP par d(P,Q) - a IX-YI 
\b ...
\f2\b0 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MvdQAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=fMHcUNr8DObC0QHU0YGYCA&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 System modelling and optimization: proceedings of the 14th ... - Page 690}}
\b , 695
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hans-J%C3%BCrgen+Sebastian%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Hans-J\'fcrgen Sebastian}}
\f1 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22International+Federation+of+Automatic+Control%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 International Federation of Automatic Control}} \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , 1990 - \uc0\u8234 960 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0Wa7AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA182&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IcPcUNLhGNKx0AHv9oG4Bg&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Stochastic Cellular Systems: Ergodicity, Memory, Morphogenesis - Page 179, 182}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone By R. L. Dobrushin, V. I. Kri
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 u
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1 kov, A. L. Toom \uc0\u8234 Manchester University Press\uc0\u8236 , 1990 - \uc0\u8234 541 pages
\f2 \cf3 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone Vaserstein
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=__vuAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8sPcUNfOK6Ww0AHi2oHoAQ&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Proceedings of the Symposium on algebra and number theory held on  27 - 29 July 1990 at Kochi, Kerala, India - Page 33}}
\b , 35, 38
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Centre+for+Mathematical+Sciences+%28Trivandrum,+India%29%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Centre for Mathematical Sciences (Trivandrum, India)}}
\f1 \cf0 \ulnone  \uc0\u8234 Centre for Mathematical Sciences\uc0\u8236 , 1990  - \uc0\u8234 129 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oufuAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8sPcUNfOK6Ww0AHi2oHoAQ&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Israel mathematical conference proceedings - Volume 2 - Page 1}}
\b , 4, 326
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Weizmann Science Press of Israel\uc0\u8236 , 1990  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=9&mx-pid=1159095"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR1159095}}\
Vaserstein
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kFZKAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=RMTcUIezGImW0QG1zYDQDg&ved=0CDUQ6AEwATge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Topology and combinatorial group theory - Page 90}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the Fall Foliage Topology Seminars, held in New Hampshire 1986-1988
\f2 \cf3 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf4 \ulnone P{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22P.+Latiolais%22"}}{\fldrslt \uc0\u8234 . Latiolais}}\cf0   \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Oct 18, 1990\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 207 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein
\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f0 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\b \cf0 1991    15 books
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Suy-AAAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein+coupling&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=vL1hTeLhCYOcgQfWqZH5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Ergodic theory and dynamical systems: Volume 11, Issues 3-4}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 University Press\uc0\u8236 , 1991\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=w8IZAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein+coupling&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCoQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \'c9cole d'\'e9t\'e9 de probabilit\'e9s de Saint-Flour XIX, 1989}} - Page 173\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Donald+L.+Burkholder%22&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&ved=0CCsQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Donald L. Burkholder}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22%C3%89tienne+Pardoux%22&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \'c9tienne Pardoux}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Alain-Sol+Sznitman%22&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Alain-Sol Sznitman}} - 1991 - 259 pages \
Vaserstein metric\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5grvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=yN7eUMzzA6a30AHoyIGgDw&ved=0CGEQ6AEwCTgy"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ulc4 Probability metrics and the stability of stochastic models - Page 249}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=120&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Svetlozar+Todorov+Rachev%22&ei=H9RhTe4fx9SBB7319KQC&ved=0CDAQ9Ag4eA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Svetlozar Todorov Rachev}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1991 - 494 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  f |x( - yt\\ x, yeM" i=i (13.2.3) see (3.2.2), (3.3.3) and (5.2.18). Remark 13.2.2. Dobrushin (1970) called \'a3x the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  (Wasserstein) distance. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=4uNCdVrrw2cC&pg=PA182&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD0Q6AEwBDjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Advances in probability distributions with given marginals: beyond the copulas - Page 182}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 185 
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 Dall'aglio, G.; Kotz, S.; Salinetti, G. (Eds.)  1991, XVIII, 232 p. 5 illus.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Giorgio+Dall%27Aglio%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \
}}\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YgrvAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=JtjeUPXGBe670QGTlIHYBA&ved=0CGUQ6AEwCTge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Limit theorems and some applications in statistical physics - Page 135}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Boris+Nahapetian%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CFcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Boris Nahapetian}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1991 - 244 pages\
If the sequence of distributions Pa converges to P in a sense of Kantorovich-
\i Vasershtein
\i0  metric,\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nvfxAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBThG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Statistics: Volume 22}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul    
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Taylor & Francis\uc0\u8236 , 1991\
Vasershtein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dfw_AQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBzhG"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Singularity Theory and Its Applications: Geometric aspects of }}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Singularities\uc0\u8236  
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul - Page 176\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Warwick 1989\uc0\u8236   David Mond, James Montaldi, Mark Roberts - 1991 - 408 pages\
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_zZrbW-b39UC&pg=PA310&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j7_cUK7TO5DE0AGG4YDgDQ&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\b \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Stochastic orders and decision under risk - Page 310}}
\f2 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0edited by Karl C. Mosler, Marco Scarsini\
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JldZGjD9YVQC&pg=PA664&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j7_cUK7TO5DE0AGG4YDgDQ&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Comparison of Statistical Experiments - Page 664}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone By Erik Torgersen\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5grvAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=j7_cUK7TO5DE0AGG4YDgDQ&ved=0CFwQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Probability metrics and the stability of stochastic models - Page 426, 443, 460}}
\b , 491
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Svetlozar+Todorov+Rachev%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Svetlozar Todorov Rachev}}
\f1 \cf0 \ulnone  \uc0\u8234 Wiley\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 May 13, 1991\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 494 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f2 \cf3 \ul Wasserstein metric, Wasserstein norm\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vAXvAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OMLcUNSEGezH0AGx3IC4DQ&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Generators and relations in groups and geometries - Page 44}}
\b , 120, 123
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Adriano+Barlotti%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Adriano Barlotti}}
\f1 \cf0 \ulnone  \uc0\u8234 Kluwer Academic\uc0\u8236 , 1991 - \uc0\u8234 447 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f2 \cf3 \ul Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=bJHGdbjz6mcC&pg=PA192&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=OMLcUNSEGezH0AGx3IC4DQ&ved=0CFQQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Thirteen Papers in Algebra, Functional Analysis, Tipology and Probability - Page 192}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0translated by V. Valentin Senderovich Afraimovich AMS 1991\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf3 \ul Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xcT2StVrE6IC&pg=PA375&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IcPcUNLhGNKx0AHv9oG4Bg&ved=0CDYQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Groups St Andrews 1989: - Page 375}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0edited by C. M. Campbell, E. F. Robertson\
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hf3uAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IcPcUNLhGNKx0AHv9oG4Bg&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3 Additive number theory of Polynomials over a finite field - Page 11, 153}}
\b , 157
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Gove+W.+Effinger%22"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Gove W. Effinger}}
\f1 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+R.+Hayes%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 David R. Hayes}}\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 Oxford University Press\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Nov 7, 1991\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 157 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f2 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wefuAAAAMAAJ&q=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eWPdULCcN6Xv0QHUo4DwCw&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ulc4 Proceedings of the International Congress of Mathematicians, ... - Volume 1 - Page 385}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ichir%C5%8D+Satake%22&ei=eWPdULCcN6Xv0QHUo4DwCw&ved=0CFgQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Ichir\uc0\u333  Satake}}
\b0\fs24  - 1991\
The vast literature on the Serre conjecture contains many negative and a few special positive results on the problem of extending to vector bundles on X for X regular: one may consult the articles of Horrocks, Swan, Murthy, 
\i Vasserstein
\i0 , Bass, 
\b ...
\f2\b0 \cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380
\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1992   25 books\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mfNw3bspb7IC&q=wasserstein+gradient&dq=wasserstein+gradient&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KwfjUJb4DMSI0QG1g4DwDA&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 continuous approximation schemes for stochastic programs - Page 12}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22john+r.+birge,+liqun+qi%22&ei=KwfjUJb4DMSI0QG1g4DwDA&ved=0CEsQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 john r. birge, liqun qi}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1992\
We next use the assumptions to obtain bounds on the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric. 
\b ..
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=uxqoAAAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+space+-Wendy&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+space+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8AXjUNnhObK30gGazIDIBg&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAjhQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Applied Stochastic Analysis:  - Page 260}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of a Us-French Workshop, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J., April 29-May 2, 1991
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ioannis+Karatzas%22&ei=8AXjUNnhObK30gGazIDIBg&ved=0CEEQ9AgwAjhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Ioannis Karatzas}}
\b0\fs24 , Daniel Ocone - 1992\
Cuesta J.A. and Matran C. (1989) Notes on the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  in Hilbert spaces. 
\b ...
\b0  Kantorovich, L.V. and Rubinstein G. Sh. (1958) On the 
\i space
\i0  of completely additive functions, Vestnik LGU, Ser. Mat. 
\b ...
\b0  The 
\i distance
\i0  between two 260.
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=10tVAAAAYAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+space+-wendy&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+space+-wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=FgPjUPqaLMXH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Abstracts of papers presented to the American Mathematical Society - Volume 13 - Page 332}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22American+Mathematical+Society%22&sa=X&ei=FgPjUPqaLMXH0QGnloGoDw&ved=0CFIQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul American Mathematical Society}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992 \
Exact convergence rates for the bounded law of the Iterated logarithm in Hilbert 
\i space
\i0 . 
\b ...
\b0  Rate of Convergence of Empirical Measures in the Wassersfein 
\i Metric
\i0 . 
\b ...
\b0  observations from an i.i.d. sequence of rvs in with underlying law P, and let W be the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  (of order 2) between Pn and P. Then, under very mild 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GUwyU1ypd1wC&pg=PA177&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=y5rdUI_LC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Lectures on the Coupling Method - Page 177}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Torgny+Lindvall%22&sa=X&ei=y5rdUI_LC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Torgny Lindvall}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1992  The 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  coupling.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xiiVXFfxHGAC&pg=PA184&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=y5rdUI_LC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Mathematical Theory of Incompressible Nonviscous Fluids - Page 184}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carlo+Marchioro%22&sa=X&ei=y5rdUI_LC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CEEQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Carlo Marchioro}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mario+Pulvirenti%22&sa=X&ei=y5rdUI_LC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CEIQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Mario Pulvirenti}} - 1993 \
It can be proved that the topology induced by the metric (3.8) is equivalent to the topology of the weak convergence of the measures. \
This metric is called the Kantorovich-Rubistein (K-R) distance (sometimes called the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wbjxAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=y5rdUI_LC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Atti del Seminario matematico e fisico dell'Universit\'e0 di Modena - Volume 40 - Page 98}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Universit%C3%A0+di+Modena.+Seminario+matematico+e+fisico%22&sa=X&ei=y5rdUI_LC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CFcQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Universit\'e0 di Modena. Seminario matematico e fisico}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl264\slmult1

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  R. Herman - L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 , The stable range of C*-algebras, Invent. Math., 77 (1984), 553-555. [13] E. Hewitt - K. Ross, Abstract harmonic Analysis I, Springer Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, 1963. [14] K. Hoffman, Lectures on sup 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TA3vAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+coupling&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Poisson approximation}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.+D.+Barbour%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CDUQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 A. D. Barbour}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Lars+Holst%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CDYQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Lars Holst}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Svante+Janson%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Svante Janson}} - 1992 - 277 pages -
\b\fs28  Page 17, 254, 274\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 Wasserstein distance
\i0  Suppose that the state 
\i space
\i0  is a separable 
\i metric space
\i0  (X,d) equipped with its Borel c-field, and 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_qGsljjxgsUC&pg=PA57&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAziMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Probability in Banach spaces, 8:  - Page 57}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the eighth international conference, [held at Bowdoin College in summer 1991]
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Richard+M.+Dudley%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Richard M. Dudley}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marjorie+G.+Hahn%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Marjorie G. Hahn}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22James+Kuelbs%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul James Kuelbs}} - 1992 - 510 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=bVT3WDjqc9kC&pg=PA200&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul From Markov chains to non-equilibrium particle systems - Page 200}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 542, 578\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mufa+Chen%22&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&ved=0CFMQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Mufa Chen}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992 - 550 pages\
Givens, C. R. and Shortt, R. M.(1984), A class of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics for probability distributions, Mishigan Math. J. 31 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XK0bJfdtHm8C&pg=PA56&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CFgQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic approximation and optimization of random systems - Page 56}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lennart+Ljung%22&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&ved=0CFkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Lennart Ljung}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lennart+Ljung%22&q=inauthor:%22Georg+Ch+Pflug%22&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&ved=0CFoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Georg Ch Pflug}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lennart+Ljung%22&q=inauthor:%22Georg+Ch+Pflug%22&q=inauthor:%22Harro+Walk%22&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&ved=0CFsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Harro Walk}} - 1992 - 113 pages\
Wasserstein-metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=pckSAQAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGkQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic optimization: }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 118\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 numerical methods and technical applications : proceedings of a GAMM/IFIP-workshop held at the Federal Armed Forces University Munich, Munich, FRG, May 29-31, 1990
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kurt+Marti%22&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&ved=0CGoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Kurt Marti}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kurt+Marti%22&q=inauthor:%22Hochschule+der+Bundeswehr+M%C3%BCnchen%22&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&ved=0CGsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Hochschule der Bundeswehr M\'fcnchen}} - 1992 - 182 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0OdQAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CGQQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Automata, languages, and programming: }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul - Page 410
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 19th International Colloquium, Wien, Austria, July 13-17, 1992. Proceedings
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Werner+Kuich%22&ei=hN3kTs7RCIbx0gHah8nNBQ&ved=0CGUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Werner Kuich}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992 - 719 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=BCvtssom1CMC&pg=PA607&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=Td7kTpzkGcj40gHv1-3kBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Numerical solution of stochastic differential equations - Page 607}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+E.+Kloeden%22&ei=Td7kTpzkGcj40gHv1-3kBQ&ved=0CEUQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Peter E. Kloeden}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+E.+Kloeden%22&q=inauthor:%22Eckhard+Platen%22&ei=Td7kTpzkGcj40gHv1-3kBQ&ved=0CEYQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Eckhard Platen}} - 1992 - 632 pages\
If- 
\i Wasserstein
\i0 -Metriken und Approximation stochastischer Differentialgleichungen. Ph. D. thesis, Dissert
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mqVPAAAAYAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=Td7kTpzkGcj40gHv1-3kBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Probability and mathematical statistics: Volume 13}}\cf2 \ul  - Page 319\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Instytut+Matematyczny+%28Polska+Akademia+Nauk%29%22&ei=Td7kTpzkGcj40gHv1-3kBQ&ved=0CEwQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Instytut Matematyczny (Polska Akademia Nauk)}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992\
[2] M. Gelbricht, On a formula for the L1 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric between measures on euclidean and Hilbert spaces, Math. Nachr. 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=SOpNsvQMeYQC&pg=PA196&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Algebraic K-Theory, Commutative Algebra, and Algebraic Geomey - Page 196}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the U.S.-Italy Joint Seminar Held June 18-24, 1989 at Santa Margheri\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22R.+Keith+Dennis%22&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul R. Keith Dennis}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Claudio+Pedrini%22&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CDcQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Claudio Pedrini}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michael+R.+Stein%22&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CDgQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Michael R. Stein}} - 1992\
L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , The stable range of rings and the dimension of topological spaces. Funk. Anal. 5:2 (1971) 
\b ...
\b0  L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Normal subgroups of the general linear groups over Banach algebras, J. Pure Appl. Algebra 41:1 (1986), 99-112. 6.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=WrKfdUgvtWIC&pg=PA459&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Topology '90 - Page 459}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Boris Apanasov, Walter D. Neumann, Alan W. Reid - 1992\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Transform Approach - D. Thakur: On Gamma Functions for Function Fields - A. Thiery: Ind\'e9pendance Alg\'e9brique des P\'e9riodes et Quasi-p\'e9riodes d'un Module de Drinfeld - L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 : Ramsey's theorem and Waring's problem for algebras 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=imndTOb-LxwC&pg=PA246&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CEUQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Azumaya algebras, actions, and modules:  - Page 246}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of a Conference in honor of Goro Azumaya's seventieth birthday : proceedings of a Conference held May 23-27, 1990 with support from the National Science Foundation .
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Darrell+E.+Haile%22&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CEcQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Darrell E. Haile}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Gor%C5%8D+Azumaya+Darrell+Haile+James+Osterburg%22&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CEgQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Gor\uc0\u333  Azumaya Darrell Haile James Osterburg}} - 1992\
Replacing 6rj by 6'^6rj we see that P w \'a9Pj where PI is of rank 1 and Pi for i > 1 is the pullback of (4) and hence isomorphic to A. It remains to prove the lemma. We will deduce it from the following well known result of 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [V]. LEMMA 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LmEnAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul K-theory: Strasbourg, 1992 - Page 414}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 The 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  symbol V = Va : Umz\{A) / E$(A) \'97 
\f7 \uc0\u9659 
\f1  WE(A) is the map [(a,b,c)]~[V(v,w)], where v = (a,b,c), w = (a',b',d) with aa' + bb' + cd = 1. In [SV, Theorem 5.2], L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  has shown that this map is well defined (i.e. it is independent of 
\b ...\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=R7uMkmXh1AYC&pg=PR10&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Fuchsian Groups - Page x}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Svetlana+Katok%22&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CDMQ9AgwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Svetlana Katok}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992 \
I wish to express my appreciation to Peter Sarnak and Leonid 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  for discussions on arithmetic groups. I would like to thank Ozlem Umamoglu and Yves Martin, graduate students from my class at the University of California at Santa 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yvJMXnJkhtIC&pg=PA35&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CDcQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Galois Theory, Rings, Algebraic Groups and Their Applications: ... - Volume 183 - Page 35}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Simeon+Ivanov%22&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CDkQ9AgwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Simeon Ivanov}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  where the degree of the group is sufficiently large in comparison with the stable rank of the ring, these formulas and even the more precise one were proved by Bass and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 . The first of the formulas is equivalent to the normality of \'a3(<\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=i8gvGX2ur_8C&pg=PA62&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Translations. Ser. 2, 154. Selected papers in K-theory - Page 62}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22American+Mathematical+Society%22&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CEQQ9AgwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul American Mathematical Society}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992\
L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Stabilization of unitary and orthogonal groups over a ring with involution. Mat. Sb. 81 (1970), no. 3, 328-351; English transl. in Math. USSR-Sb. 10 (1970). Institute of Mathematics Academy of Sciences of the Belorussian SSR 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gFHvAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=S5ndUPPaMojW0gGj5YDgBA&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Cyclic homology - Page 352}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Louis+Loday%22&ei=S5ndUPPaMojW0gGj5YDgBA&ved=0CDwQ9AgwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Jean-Louis Loday}}
\b0\fs24  - 1992\
11.2.14 Theorem. For any ring A the connected space X(A) is acyclic (H.(X(A)) = 0) and is simple in dimension > 2. Proof (absence of). The original proof is due to Volodin [1971], see also 
\i Vaser- stein
\i0  [1976]. We refer to Suslin [1981] for a short 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=s1J8QGH8zU4C&pg=PA132&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Partial Differential Equations of Elliptic Type: Cortona, 1992 - Page 132}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Angelo+Alvino%22&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CE4Q9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Angelo Alvino}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22E.+B.+Fabes%22&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CE8Q9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul E. B. Fabes}}, Giorgio Talenti - 1994\
Remark 1 We can define the Kantorovich-
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  (see [RR] for example) between po and p\\ by setting x (5) Then we get Indeed, / |V*(x) - xfPo(x)dx = I \\y-xfvopt(dx,dy) J X ** X x X = \\x\\2(po(x) + pi(x))dx - 2y.x vopt(dx,dy) J X J X X.X\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7vMYAQAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CF8Q6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Sensitivity analysis and optimization of discrete event systems - Volume 39, Issues 1-4 - Page 179}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 S\'f8ren Asmussen, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Reuven+Y.+Rubinstein%22&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CGEQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Reuven Y. Rubinstein}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alexander+Shapiro%22&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CGIQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Alexander Shapiro}} - 1992 - \
We introduce the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  for probability measures Vi and v2 on the Borel a- algebra of (R, r): r(Vi, V2) :=sup\{ < G, Vi ) - < G, v2 > : G is a real function on /? with \'a3(G) ^ 1 \} . There is no ambiguity in denoting the 
\i distance
\i0  in R and the 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=6&mx-pid=1196508"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 MR1196508
\b0 \ul  }}
\b0 The arithmetic of function fields. Proceedings of the workshop held at The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, June 17\'9626, 1991. Edited by David Goss, David R. Hayes and Michael I. Rosen. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Ohio_State_University_Mathematical_Research_Institute_Publications"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Ohio State University Mathematical Research Institute Publications, 2.}} 
\i Walter de Gruyter & Co., Berlin,
\i0  1992. viii+482 pp. ISBN: 3-11-013171-4 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=11-06,%2811G09,11R58%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 11-06 (11G09 11R58)}}\cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1993  10 books\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=klLvAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4-HxUOXjHYWN0QHZn4GQDw&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ulc8 K-theory for real C*-algebras and applications - Page 46}}\cf8 \ulc8 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1993,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Herbert+Schr%C3%B6der%22&ei=4-HxUOXjHYWN0QHZn4GQDw&ved=0CEYQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf8 \ulc8 Herbert Schr\'f6der}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1993 - Snippet view\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  and L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [HrV] have shown that sr(>4) and tsr(.4) coincide if A is a C*-algebra. Although the condition of 1.6.2 guarantees weak stability, the size of the stable range depends on far subtler properties of the C*-algebra in question.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xiiVXFfxHGAC&pg=PA184&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ZuLxUL3DO46y0AH91oD4CA&ved=0CC4Q6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Mathematical Theory of Incompressible Nonviscous Fluids - Page 184}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1993,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carlo+Marchioro%22&sa=X&ei=ZuLxUL3DO46y0AH91oD4CA&ved=0CDAQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Carlo Marchioro}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1993,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mario+Pulvirenti%22&sa=X&ei=ZuLxUL3DO46y0AH91oD4CA&ved=0CDEQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Mario Pulvirenti}} - 1993 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xiiVXFfxHGAC&pg=PA184&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ZuLxUL3DO46y0AH91oD4CA&ved=0CDIQuwUwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Preview}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1993,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&q=editions:y97OJ7Kc-0YC&sa=X&ei=ZuLxUL3DO46y0AH91oD4CA&ved=0CDMQmBYwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 More editions}}\
It can be proved that the topology induced by the metric (3.8) is equivalent to the topology of the weak convergence of the measures. This metric is called the Kantorovich-Rubistein (K-R) distance (sometimes called the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1HfaHwAACAAJ&dq=Shape+Recognition+Using+Metrics+on+the+Space+of+Shapes+wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ouPxUK3DAqfo0gH-p4GgBQ&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b\fs28 \cf8 Shape recognition using metrics
\i0 \ul  on the 
\i \ulnone space
\i0 \ul  of 
\i \ulnone shapes}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+Spotts+Fry%22&ei=ouPxUK3DAqfo0gH-p4GgBQ&ved=0CDIQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 David Spotts Fry}}
\b0\fs24  - 1993 -
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf2 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=pXnvPvPbiwIC&pg=PA115&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDAQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Large deviations for discrete-time processes with averaging - Page 115}} , 185\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22O.+V.+Gulinsky%22&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&ved=0CDEQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 O. V. Gulinsky}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.+Yu+Veretennikov%22&ei=yL5hTbLeLcvogAey5dXRAg&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A. Yu Veretennikov}} - 1993 - 186 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kx1SODsi-HkC&pg=PA453&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=Xt3kTomFNcnx0gHC86DABQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Cellular automata and cooperative systems - Page 453}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nino+Boccara%22&sa=X&ei=Xt3kTomFNcnx0gHC86DABQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Nino Boccara}}
\b0\fs24  - 1993 - 546 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nlPxAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=Mt_kTqWrI6Pb0QHYzaDaBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Gazette - Australian Mathematical Society: Volumes 20-21}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1993,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1993&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Australian+Mathematical+Society%22&ei=Mt_kTqWrI6Pb0QHYzaDaBQ&ved=0CEQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Australian Mathematical Society}}
\b0\fs24  - 1993\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1ttmCRCerVUC&pg=PR2&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Encyclopaedia of Mathematics (9) - Page ii}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Michiel Hazewinkel - 1993 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  L. Streit, K. Stromberg, L. G. Suttorp, D. Tabak, F. Takens, R. J. Takens, N. M. Temme, S. H. Tijs, B. Trakhtenbrot, L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , M. L. J. van de Vel, F. D. Veldkamp, P. M. B. Vitanyi, N. J. Vlaar, H. A. van der Vorst, J. de Vries, F. Waldhausen, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=lF8nAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CFcQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Topological methods in modern mathematics - Volume 3 - Page 55}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 83\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 a symposium in honor of John Milnor's sixtieth birthday\uc0\u8236 , Volume 3
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Willard+Milnor%22&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CFkQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul John Willard Milnor}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lisa+R.+Goldberg%22&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CFoQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Lisa R. Goldberg}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Anthony+Valiant+Phillips%22&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CFsQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Anthony Valiant Phillips}} - 1993 \
Early results of the author [HB2, 3] and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [Vasl] showed, under suitable "finite dimensionality" assumptions on A, 
\b ...
\b0  It was later shown by Suslin and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  that, for A a finitely generated Z(/4)-module, (1) and (2) hold for all n > 3.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=5&mx-pid=1242557"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR1242557
\b0 \ul  }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=158130"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Sehgal, S. K.}} Units in integral group rings. With an appendix by Al Weiss. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Pitman_Monographs_and_Surveys_in_Pure_and_Applied_Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Pitman Monographs and Surveys in Pure and Applied Mathematics, 69.}} 
\i Longman Scientific & Technical, Harlow; copublished in the United States with John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York,
\i0  1993. xii+357 pp. ISBN: 0-582-23081-0 (Reviewer: E. Jespers) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=16U60,%2816-02,16S34,20-02,20C05,20C07,20C10,20C12%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 16U60 (16-02 16S34 20-02 20C05 20C07 20C10 20C12)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books/about/On_Lower_Bounds_for_the_L_elevado_A_2_Wa.html?id=RmFTcgAACAAJ"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 On Lower Bounds for the L2-Wasserstein Metric in a Hilbert Space
\i0 \ul  }}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22J.+A.+Cuesta-Albertos%22&ei=AvPiUKuqBaqo0AH-sICIDQ&ved=0CFEQ9AgwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 J. A. Cuesta-Albertos}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carlos+Matr%C3%A1n+Bea%22&ei=AvPiUKuqBaqo0AH-sICIDQ&ved=0CFIQ9AgwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Carlos Matr\'e1n Bea}}, Universidad de Cantabria - 1993
\b\fs28 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 1994  11 books\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \ulnone MR1297782
\b0  
\b (95d:52002)
\b0   First International Conference on Stochastic Geometry, Convex Bodies and Empirical Measures. \
Proceedings of the conference held in Palermo, April 25\'96May 2, 1993. Edited by M. I. Stoka. Rend. Circ. Mat. Palermo (2) Suppl. No. 35 (1994). 
\i Circolo Matematico di Palermo, Palermo,
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=135322"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 1994. }}pp. 1\'96358. \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=52-06,%2860-06%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 52-06 (60-06)}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Juan A. Cuesta-Albertos [Juan Antonio Cuesta] and Carlos Matr\'e1n-Bea [Carlos Matr\'e1n], Stochastic convergence through Skorohod representation theorems and Wasserstein distances (89\'96113);\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=qZNcOygYKL0C&pg=PA127&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IkDgUJ7_K9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwADh4"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Analysis, Algebra, and Computers in Mathematical Research: ... - Page 127}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mats+Gyllenberg%22&ei=IkDgUJ7_K9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CDYQ9AgwADh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Mats Gyllenberg}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Lars Erik Persson - 1994 \
[22] D.W. Stroock and S.R.S Varadhan, "Multidimensional 
\i Diffusion
\i0  Processes". Springer- Verlag, Berlin, 1979. [23] A. Szulga, On the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric, Trans. 8th Prague Conference, B, D. Reidel Publishing Company, Dordrecht, Holland, 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul P{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9UMOvAsTXVkC&pg=PA130&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt robability theory and mathematical statistics:  - Page 30}}, 90, 130, 142, 190\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the Sixth Vilnius Conference (1993) : Vilnius, Lithuania, 28 June-3 July, 1993\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Bronius+Grigelionis%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Bronius Grigelionis}} - VSP 1994 - 742 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN9067641782, 9789067641784\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein
\i0 , L.N. (1969). Markov processes on a countable product\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=qfnuAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Collected works of Pere Menal - Page 245, 436}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Pere+Menal%22&ei=TsfkToSfF4Hy0gGX2uDqBQ&ved=0CFcQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Pere Menal}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Pere+Menal%22&q=inauthor:%22Manuel+Castellet%22&ei=TsfkToSfF4Hy0gGX2uDqBQ&ved=0CFgQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Manuel Castellet}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Pere+Menal%22&q=inauthor:%22Manuel+Castellet%22&q=inauthor:%22Warren+Dicks%22&ei=TsfkToSfF4Hy0gGX2uDqBQ&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Warren Dicks}} - 1994 - 639 pages\
INTRODUCTION Let R be a ring and let I be an ideal of R. In [ 5 ] 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  proves that 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xiiVXFfxHGAC&pg=PA184&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mathematical theory of incompressible non-viscous fluids - Page 184}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 283\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carlo+Marchioro%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CFEQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Carlo Marchioro}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carlo+Marchioro%22&q=inauthor:%22Mario+Pulvirenti%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CFIQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mario Pulvirenti}} - 1994 - 283 pages\
Vasershtein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=E8RQAAAAYAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAzhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Kybernetika: Volume 30}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 85\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22%C4%8Ceskoslovensk%C3%A1+akademie+v%C4%9Bd.+Kybernetick%C3%A1+komise%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CEMQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u268 eskoslovensk\'e1 akademie v\u283 d. Kybernetick\'e1 komise}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22%C4%8Ceskoslovensk%C3%A1+akademie+v%C4%9Bd.+Kybernetick%C3%A1+komise%22&q=inauthor:%22%C4%8Ceskoslovensk%C3%A1+kybernetick%C3%A1+spole%C4%8Dnost%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CEQQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \uc0\u268 eskoslovensk\'e1 kybernetick\'e1 spole\u269 nost}} - 1994\
Vasershtein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NpVdWdFq5YMC&pg=PA606&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CFkQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Algebraic Groups and Number Theory - Volume 139 - Page 606}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+Petrovich+Platonov%22&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CFsQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Vladimir Petrovich Platonov}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Andre%C4%AD+Stepanovich+Rapinchuk%22&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CFwQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Andre\uc0\u301  Stepanovich Rapinchuk}} - 1994\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasserstein
\i0  L. N. [1] \'93On SL2 over an arithmetic Dedekind ring,\'94 Mat. Sb. 89 2 (1972), 313-322. [2] \'93On full subgroups of Chevalley groups,\'94 Toh\'e9ku Math. J. 37 4 (1985), 423-454. [3] \'93On arithmetic subgroups of simple algebraic groups,\'94 Linear 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aNURlzNuotEC&pg=PA39&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CGYQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Discrete Groups, Expanding Graphs and Invariant Measures: - Page 39}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Appendix by Jonathan D. Rogawski\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alex+Lubotzky%22&sa=X&ei=8JbdUKPSO-TD0AGCpIDAAg&ved=0CGgQ9AgwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Alex Lubotzky}}
\b0\fs24  - 1994 \
To be more precise, Kazhdan announced it only for rank > 3, but it was very quickly realized by Wang [Wanl], Delaroche-Kirillov [DKi] and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [Vs] that the same holds for rank > 2 and over every local field. Some of the R-rank one real 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=WZQCarePeZsC&pg=PA73&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Commutative ring theory:  - Page 73}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the F\'e8s International Conference
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Paul-Jean+Cahen%22&ei=PpjdUPXgMbK60AGh3oHQCg&ved=0CD4Q9AgwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Paul-Jean Cahen}}
\b0\fs24  - \uc0\u8234 CRC Press\uc0\u8236 , 1994 - \uc0\u8234 256 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Klingenherg, Lineare Gruppen iiher lokalen Ringen, Amer. J. Math. 83(1961), 137-153. [9] N. H. J. Lacroix, Two-dimensional linear groups over local rings, Canad. J. Math. 21(1969), 106-135. [10] L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , On the normal suhgroups of 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PudJAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gJndUO_DEbO30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Lecture notes in pure and applied mathematics - Volume 153 - Page 73}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cahen%22&ei=gJndUO_DEbO30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CDMQ9AgwADge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Cahen}}
\b0\fs24  - 1994 \
J. Math. 83(1961), 137-153. [9] N. H. J. Lacroix, Two-dimensional linear groups over local rings, Canad. J. Math. 21(1969), 106-135. [10] L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , On the normal subgroups of GLn over a ring, L. N. S. 854, Springer (1981), 456-465.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=H7zxAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul The Mathematical scientist - Volumes 19-22 - Page 51, 69}}\cf4 \ul , 71\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1992,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1994&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Commonwealth+Scientific+and+Industrial+Research+Organization+%28Australia%29.+Division+of+Mathematics+and+Statistics%22&sa=X&ei=XpzdUPLECune0gHh6IGoBQ&ved=0CEQQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (Australia). Division of Mathematics and Statistics}}
\b0\fs24  - 1994\
[24] Cuesta-Albertos, J. A., MatrAn, C. and Tuero-Diaz, A. (1993) Optimal maps for the Z. 2 -
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0 . Preprint. 
\b ...
\b0  (to appear) [26] Cuesta-Albertos, J. A., Ruschendorf, L. and Tuero-Diaz, A. \
(1993) Optimal 
\i coupling
\i0  of multivariate distributions and stochastic processes. 
\b ...
\b0  [35] GELBRICH, M. (1990) On a formula for the L2-
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  between measures on Euclidean and Hilbert spaces.
\b\fs28 \
\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1995  13 books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Cxo7AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA136&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBg#v=onepage&q=Vaserstein&f=false"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Vector Bundles in Algebraic Geometry: Durham, 1993, Volume 36}}
\f1\b\fs28  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Cxo7AAAAIAAJ&pg=PA136&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=qETcUPDIBdCH0QHsp4DoAw&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul  - Page 136}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Charles+Terence+Clegg+Wall%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=9"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Charles Terence Clegg Wall}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nigel+J.+Hitchin%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=9"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Nigel J. Hitchin}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22P.+E.+Newstead%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=9"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 P. E. Newstead}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22W.+M.+Oxbury%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=9"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 W. M. Oxbury}}\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 CUP Archive, 1995\uc0\u8236   \uc0\u8234 SBN0521227291, 9780521227292\uc0\u8236    345 pp\
L. Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dJpTR-jfd1kC&pg=PA127&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=vL1hTeLhCYOcgQfWqZH5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Topics in contemporary probability and its applications - Page 127}}, 157\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22James+Laurie+Snell%22&ei=vL1hTeLhCYOcgQfWqZH5AQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 James Laurie Snell}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1995 - 380 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Ll7vAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CE4Q6AEwBjhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Handbook of incidence geometry: buildings and foundations}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 1084, 1371\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Francis+Buekenhout%22&ei=cc7kTrHvM6nh0QHuppnZBQ&ved=0CE8Q9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Francis Buekenhout}}
\b0\fs24  - 1995 - 1420 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=t8buAAAAMAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=hN_kTq3iOOnw0gH4oc2yAQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Canadian Mathematical Society, 1945-1995: Invited papers}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 52\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Canadian Mathematical Society, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1995,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1995&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+A.+Fillmore%22&sa=X&ei=hN_kTq3iOOnw0gH4oc2yAQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Peter A. Fillmore}} - 1995 - 286 pages\
Vasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gYb3zuSnskQC&pg=PA62&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=tt_kTvy6D6WP0QHVhL3rBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Analysis of censored data - Page 61, 62}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 63, 64, 65\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/Analysis-Censored-Data--1994-January-Notes-Monograph/dp/0940600390/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1357115465&sr=1-1&keywords=0940600390"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Proceedings of the Workshop on Analysis of Censored Data, December 28,-1994-January 1, 1995, University of Pune, Pune, India (Lecture Notes-Monograph Vol. 27)}}\cf0 \ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 by Hira L. Koul and Jayant V. Deshpande (Dec 1995)
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Hira L. Koul, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1995,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1995&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22J.+V.+Deshpande%22&ei=tt_kTvy6D6WP0QHVhL3rBQ&ved=0CDQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul J. V. Deshpande}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1995,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1995&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22J.+V.+Deshpande%22&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Mathematical+Statistics%22&ei=tt_kTvy6D6WP0QHVhL3rBQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Institute of Mathematical Statistics}} - 1995 - 291 pages\
Wasserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=cYjgWLrg79cC&pg=PA14&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Second International Conference on Algebra: Dedicated to the Memory of A.I. Shirshov - Page 14}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Leonid+A.+Bokut%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CEYQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Leonid A. Bokut}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alekse%C4%AD+Ivanovich+Kostrikin%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CEcQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Alekse\uc0\u301  Ivanovich Kostrikin}}, Semen Samsonovich Kutateladze - 1995\
The theorem over general commutative rings has been investigated by many mathematicians and in particular by L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [38, 39]. For the Chevalley groups, some partial solutions have been given by E. Abe [1], E. Abe and K. Suzuki 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=c3Osi9JnwjkC&pg=PA605&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CE4Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Groups '93 Galway/St Andrews: - Page 605}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22C.+M.+Campbell%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CFAQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul C. M. Campbell}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22E.+F.+Robertson%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CFEQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul E. F. Robertson}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22T.+C.+Hurley%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CFIQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul T. C. Hurley}} - 1995\
The theorem of Dennis and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  also applies to many other groups such as Q = li_m Aut(F,,) where F,, is the free group of rank n. Is every element of Q a single commutator? Keith Dennis Problem 16. Let \{1,p\'b0, . . . ,p'\} be a set of powers 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gzRti1o1bXkC&pg=PA91&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Number Theory: Fourth Conference of the Canadian Number Theory Association - Page 91}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Canadian+Number+Theory+Association.+Conference%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CFgQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Canadian Number Theory Association. Conference}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Dilcher,+Karl+H.%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CFkQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Dilcher, Karl H.}} - 1995 \
Acknowledgement: I am grateful to the referee for providing the references [7], [8], to Koyama, and the reference to Conn and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [3], who discover the solution 416396113 + (-41531726)3 + (-8241191)3 = 84. REFERENCES 1. APECS\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 Vaserstein
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=USWURpFFZxEC&pg=PA30&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul A Primer of Algebraic D-Modules - Page 30}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22S.+C.+Coutinho%22&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CD8Q9AgwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul S. C. Coutinho}}
\b0\fs24  - 1995\
This follows an idea of L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  and V. Katz; see [Bass, Connell and Wright 82, p.297]. The next section is a digression on results about derivations that will be required in \'a74. 3. \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TcOzdq3nDp4C&pg=PA205&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CE4Q6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Different Aspects of Coding Theory:  - Page 205}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 American Mathematical Society Short Course, January 2-3, 1995, San Francisco, California
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Robert+Calderbank%22&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CFAQ9AgwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Robert Calderbank}}
\b0\fs24  - 1995 \
Y. I. Lyubich and L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Isometric embeddings between classical Banach spaces, cubature formulas, and spherical designs, Report PM 128, Penn. State Univ., Philadelphia PA, 1992. [57] A. L. Mackay, The 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CRIZAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=zaTdUPmvHuHs0QHEiYGADA&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Columbia University number theory seminar: New York, 1992 - Page 171}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Columbia+University+Number+Theory+Seminar+%28%22&ei=zaTdUPmvHuHs0QHEiYGADA&ved=0CDMQ9AgwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Columbia University Number Theory Seminar (}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Dorian+Goldfeld%22&ei=zaTdUPmvHuHs0QHEiYGADA&ved=0CDQQ9AgwADgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Dorian Goldfeld}}, Columbia University - 1995 \
That such questions are topical is clear from the recent work of Batyrev, Duke, Fomenko, Franke, Golubeva, Heath-Brown, Hooley, Iwaniec, Manin, Moroz, Rudnik, Sarnak, Schulze-Pillot, Silverman, Tschinkel, 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , and others (cf.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gYb3zuSnskQC&pg=PA62&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Analysis of censored data:  - Page 61, 62}}\cf2 \ul  63, 64, 65\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the Workshop on Analysis of Censored Data, December 28, 1994-January 1, 1995, University of Pune, Pune, India
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Hira L. Koul, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22J.+V.+Deshpande%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul J. V. Deshpande}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Mathematical+Statistics%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CDUQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Institute of Mathematical Statistics}} - 1995 - 291 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0940600390, 9780940600393\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein metrics, Wasserstein statistics\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\b \cf0 1996   10  books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=4FkPd0IgKkwC&pg=PR16&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=xZ7dUNTWFcjE0AHhwYGQDw&ved=0CGIQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Distributions with fixed marginals and related topics - Page xvi}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 97, 99
\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 DISCRETIZATION FOR STOCHASTIC DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS, Lp 
\i WASSERSTEIN
\i0  METRICS, AND ECONOMETRICAL\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=20&mx-pid=1485518"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR1485518
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (98g:60004)}} Distributions with fixed marginals and related topics. Proceedings of the AMS-IMS-SIAM Joint Summer Research Conference on Distributions with Fixed Marginals, \
Doubly Stochastic Measures and Markov Operators held in Seattle, WA, August 1\'965, 1993. Edited by Ludger R\'fcschendorf, Berthold Schweizer and Michael D. Taylor.\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Institute_of_Mathematical_Statistics_Lecture_NotesMonograph_Series"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Institute of Mathematical Statistics Lecture Notes\'97Monograph Series, 28.}} 
\i Institute of Mathematical Statistics, Hayward, CA,
\i0  1996. xx+364 pp. ISBN: 0-940600-40-4, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60-06,%2862-06%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60-06 (62-06)}}
\f0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yUjMsCyrrCUC&pg=PA22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAjhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Random discrete structures - Page 22}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Lecture+Notes+in+Statistics%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=5"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Volume 76 of Lecture Notes in Statistics}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22David+J.+Aldous%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 David J. Aldous}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Robin+Pemantle%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Robin Pemantle}} - \uc0\u8234 Springer-Verlag GmbH\uc0\u8236 , 1996 -  225 pages ISBN \uc0\u8234 0387946233, 9780387946238\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_txpn0EjW7EC&pg=PA532&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDsQ6AEwBDhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Identification, adaptation, learning: the science of learning Models from Data - Page 519, 532}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Bittanti%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CDwQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Sergio Bittanti}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Giorgio+Picci%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CD0Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Giorgio Picci}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22North+Atlantic+Treaty+Organization.+Scientific+Affairs+Division%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Scientific Affairs Division}} -   1996 - 552 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-hsfhE1hyWMC&pg=PA277&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADiqAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic modelling in physical oceanography - Page 276, 277}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Robert+J.+Adler%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Robert J. Adler}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Peter+M%C3%BCller%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Peter M\'fcller}}, Boris L
\f5 \uc0\u697 
\f1 vovich Rozovski\uc0\u301  - 1996 - 466 pages\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1aYrvlIZ63gC&pg=PA139&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 Mathematics in St. Petersburg - Page 139}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Andrej+A.+Bolibruch%22&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CDoQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Andrej A. Bolibruch}}
\b0\fs24 , A. S. Merkur'ev, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22N.+Yu+Netsvetaev%22&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CDsQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul N. Yu Netsvetaev}} - 1996 \
L. 
\i Vasserstein
\i0 , On the stabilization of the general linear group over a ring, Mat. Sb. 79 (1969), 405-424; English transl., Math. USSR-Sb. 8 (1969), 383-400. 13. M. Wodzicki, Excision in cyclic homology and in rational algebraic K-theory, Ann.\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5AcTAQAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=xZ7dUNTWFcjE0AHhwYGQDw&ved=0CF4Q6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul The Mathematical scientist - Volumes 21-23 - Page 69}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 1996\
[24] Cuesta-Albertos, J. A., MatrAn, C. and Tuero-Diaz, A. (1993) Optimal maps for the Z. 2 -
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0 . Preprint. [25] Cuesta-Albertos, J. A., MatrAn, C. and Tuero-Diaz, A. (1993) On lower bounds for the L2-
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  in a Hilbert space. J. Theor. Prob. (to appear) \
[26] Cuesta-Albertos,J.A.,ROschendorf,L. and Tuero-Diaz, A. (1993) Optimal 
\i coupling
\i0  of multivariate distributions and 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Z5k1bGbxWMwC&pg=PA98&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Rings and Radicals:  - Page 98}}
\f1\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the International Conference, Shijiazhuang '94
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22B.+J.+Gardner%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CDMQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul B. J. Gardner}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Shao-Xue+Liu%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CDQQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Shao-Xue Liu}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Rich%E9%88%87rd+Wiegandt%22&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CDUQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Rich
\f8 \uc0\u37383 
\f1 rd Wiegandt}} - 1996 \
In 1980, Warfield [20] characterized the module M such that EndR(M) G srl : EndR(M) G srl iff M satisfies substitution property. In 1971, 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [18] studied srl condition and obtained the following results: srl condition is left-right symmetric;\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VLhj4v7kVxwC&pg=PA54&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=SqLdUOCBKOff0gGIh4CICg&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Group Theory in China - Page 54}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Zhexian Wan, Sheng-Ming Shi - 1996 \
[39] Magum, B., Van der Kallen, W. and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , L., Absolute stable rank and Witt cancellation for non-commutative rings, Inv. Math., 91 (1988), 525-543. [40] O'Meara, O.T., The automorphisms of the orthogonal groups fln(V) over fields, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=h--qhH_BdbEC&pg=PA286&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Interaction between functional analysis, harmonic analysis, and probability - Page 286}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nigel+J.+%28Nigel+John%29+Kalton%22&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CEUQ9AgwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Nigel J. (Nigel John) Kalton}}
\b0\fs24 , Elias Saab, Nigel Kalton Elias Saab Stephen Montgomery-Smith - 1996 \
One can find results on Banach spaces with polynomial norms and on the structure of suhspaces of L^* with fc \'80 N in the papers Reznick (1979), Lyuhich and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  (1993), Konig (1994). Let us formulate the result of Proposition 6 in the
\f0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xjZFAQAAIAAJ&q=Arratia++Wasserstein&dq=Arratia++Wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=_N7iULf5KbG30QHM7IGIBw&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Masters abstracts - Volume 34, Issues 1-2 - Page 770}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22University+Microfilms+International%22&ei=_N7iULf5KbG30QHM7IGIBw&ved=0CEUQ9AgwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul University Microfilms International}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22University+Microfilms%22&ei=_N7iULf5KbG30QHM7IGIBw&ved=0CEYQ9AgwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul University Microfilms}} - 1996 \
Adviser: Richard 
\i Arratia
\i0  Order Number MA1376449 We discuss the coupon collector's problem: Coupons are of m 
\b ...
\b0  R we compute approximations for the total variation distance d-rv (\'a3(T), \'a3(T')) and the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance dw(\'a3(T), \'a3(r')).
\f0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\

\b 1997   17 books
\f1\b0 \

\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dE9VAAAAYAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=bDLgUKG3I7O30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CGIQ6AEwCDgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Abstracts of papers presented to the American Mathematical Society - Volume 18 - Page 390}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22American+Mathematical+Society%22&ei=bDLgUKG3I7O30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CGQQ9AgwCDgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 American Mathematical Society}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1997 \
On the connections between the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric and diffusions.
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=m6dKDO181gAC&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CDoQ6AEwBThu"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Encyclopedia of statistical sciences: Update: Volume 1}}  - Page 518\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=110&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Samuel+Kotz%22&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&ved=0CDsQ9Ag4bg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Samuel Kotz}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=110&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Campbell+B.+Read%22&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&ved=0CDwQ9Ag4bg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Campbell B. Read}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=110&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22David+L.+Banks%22&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&ved=0CD0Q9Ag4bg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul David L. Banks}} - 1997 - 582 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul D{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dTzvAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=H9RhTe4fx9SBB7319KQC&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADh4"}}{\fldrslt ifferential equations and applications: }}- Page 109, 117, 118, 120
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the US-Chinese conference, held in Hangzhou, June 24-29, 1996
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=120&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22P.+W.+Bates%22&ei=H9RhTe4fx9SBB7319KQC&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4eA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 P. W. Bates}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1997 - 363 pages\
 The 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric is equivalent to a topology on the 
\b ...
\b0  Finally, we offer an observation about the Tsallis entropy, [37] recently introduced to investigate Levy like super-
\i diffusion
\i0  and fractal generation. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=UQMXPi_luLIC&pg=PA161&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAzigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Geometry of cuts and metrics - Page 34, 161}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22M.+Deza%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 M. Deza}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Monique+Laurent%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CDsQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Monique Laurent}} - 1997 - 587 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=heCzfIclio0C&pg=PA207&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBjiqAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Gaussian Hilbert spaces - Page 207}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Svante+Janson%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Svante Janson}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1997 - 340 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mHph5j0Kqe8C&pg=PA217&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFAQ6AEwCDjcAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Real and stochastic analysis: recent advances - Page 217}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Malempati Madhusudana Rao - 1997 - 393 pages\
Wasserstein metrics\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fcnxAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastics and stochastics reports: Volumes 61-62}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  1997\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Gordon and Breach Science Publishers\uc0\u8236 , 1997\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3xQpXJ_hmBMC&pg=PA196&dq=Waserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Thirty-one invited addresses at the International Congress of ... - Page 196}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22M.+A.+Aizerman%22&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul M. A. Aizerman}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22D.+V.+Anosov%22&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CDcQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul D. V. Anosov}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22V.+I.+Arnold%22&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CDgQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul V. I. Arnold}} - 1997 \
3) F is the group of integral points of a spinor group connected with a quadratic form, in which the number of negative squares, and also the number of positive squares, is not less than two (L. N. 
\i Waserstein
\i0 , in press). In all the cases 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MiUjpjN_bb0C&pg=PA400&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=CaDdUN_8B8u-0QG8uoGgDg&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Modern Theory of Summation of Random Variables - Page 400}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+M.+Zolotarev%22&ei=CaDdUN_8B8u-0QG8uoGgDg&ved=0CFQQ9AgwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Vladimir M. Zolotarev}}
\b0\fs24  - 1997 \
Givens, GR, and Schorff, R.M. (1984). A Class of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Metrics for Probability Distributions. Dept. Math. 
\b ...
\b0  A generalization to Ornstein's 
\i distance
\i0  with applications to information theory. Ann. Probab. 3, 315-318. Grigorevskii, N.V. (1986).\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=w6jRt4bRXNoC&pg=PA221&dq=wasserstein+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=66DdUJvtBbOG0QHy6oD4AQ&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Mathematics of Stochastic Manufacturing Systems: 1996 Ams-Siam ... - Page 221}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22G.+George+Yin%22&sa=X&ei=66DdUJvtBbOG0QHy6oD4AQ&ved=0CE0Q9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul G. George Yin}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22George+Yin+Qing+Zhang%22&sa=X&ei=66DdUJvtBbOG0QHy6oD4AQ&ved=0CE4Q9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul George Yin Qing Zhang}} - 1997\
In fact one may base a distance concept on the existence of couplings: We define the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance r for inner regular probability measures ^i and /i2 on a general metric 
\i space
\i0  (R, r): r(^1,^2) = inf\{E(r(Xi,X2)) : (Xi,Xi) is a bivariate 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=w6jRt4bRXNoC&pg=PA221&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=xZ7dUNTWFcjE0AHhwYGQDw&ved=0CEoQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Mathematics of Stochastic Manufacturing Systems: 1996 Ams-Siam ... - Page 221}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22G.+George+Yin%22&ei=xZ7dUNTWFcjE0AHhwYGQDw&ved=0CEwQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul G. George Yin}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22George+Yin+Qing+Zhang%22&ei=xZ7dUNTWFcjE0AHhwYGQDw&ved=0CE0Q9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul George Yin Qing Zhang}} - 1997 \
Strassen.s construction suggests the close relation between distances of probability measures and 
\i coupling
\i0  constructions. In fact one may base a 
\i distance
\i0  concept on the existence of couplings: We define the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  r for inner regular probability measures ^i and /i2 on a general \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 metric
\i0  space (R, r): r(^1,^2) = inf\{E(r(Xi,X2)) : (Xi,Xi) is a bivariate random variable (2) with given marginals Xi 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=BDnWFJNOnRgC&pg=PA336&dq=wasserstein+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eqHdUNSfOcuD0QHV1oDgBQ&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Stochastic Differential and Difference Equations - Page 336}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22I+Csisz%C3%A1r%22&ei=eqHdUNSfOcuD0QHV1oDgBQ&ved=0CEQQ9AgwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 I Csisz\'e1r}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Gy\'f6rgy Michaletzky - 1997\
[KMW] G. Kallianpur, I. Mitoma and R. L. Wolpert, Diffusion equation in duals of nuclear 
\i spaces
\i0 , Stochastics, 29 (1990), 1-45. [EK] S. 
\b ...
\b0  [Sz] A. Szulga, On the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric, Transactions of the 8th Prague Conference, (1978), 267-273.
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tVJ2oJk-mDoC&pg=PA212&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Advances in Ring Theory - Page 212}}\cf4 , 219\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Surender+Kumar+Jain%22&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CDMQ9AgwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Surender Kumar Jain}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22S.+Tariq+Rizvi%22&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CDQQ9AgwADgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul S. Tariq Rizvi}} - 1997 \
The following lemma is due to 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  M. Let us note that if i, j and k are pairwise distinct integers, and a, b are in our ring, then the commutator [/ + aEij,I + 6F/j^] is equal Lemma 2.2. Let W be any nonzero ideal in (n. Then, for any natural\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3Ulggi8-2PcC&pg=PA65&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CDgQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Projective Modules and Complete Intersections - Volume 1672 - Page 65}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Satya+Mandal%22&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CDoQ9AgwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Satya Mandal}}
\b0\fs24  - 1997 \
Theorem 5.1.1 (Suslin) En(j4) is a normal subgroup of GLn(A) for any integer n > 3. We need the following lemmas to prove Theorem 5.1.1. Lemma 5.1.2 (
\i Vaserstein
\i0 ) Let a be an r x s -matrix and 0 be an 8 x r-matrix. Suppose I + a/3 is in GLr(A) 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=KaLshoPoSlsC&pg=PA356&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Cyclic Homology - Page 356}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Louis+Loday%22&ei=pKPdUL-ZDLKz0QG81oH4Ag&ved=0CEoQ9AgwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jean-Louis Loday}} - 1997 \
The original proof is due to 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [1976] and Wagoner [1977]. We refer to Suslin [1981] for a short proof of this technical and important result. D 11.2.15 Corollary. The Volodin space fits into a natural homotopy fibration
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9HfVU1B09-UC&pg=PA264&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=zaTdUPmvHuHs0QHEiYGADA&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Mem\'f2ria d'activitats: curs 1994-1995 - Page 264}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institut+d%27Estudis+Catalans%22&ei=zaTdUPmvHuHs0QHEiYGADA&ved=0CD4Q9AgwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Institut d'Estudis Catalans}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institut+d%27Estudis+Catalans+%28Barcelona%29%22&ei=zaTdUPmvHuHs0QHEiYGADA&ved=0CD8Q9AgwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Institut d'Estudis Catalans (Barcelona)}} - 1997\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  175 Vaquero, T. 205 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , L. 183 Vayreda, J. 204, 207 V\'e1zquez i Garc\'eda, Merce 119 Veciana Tormo, Robert 144 Veerman, J. J. P. 176, 193 Vegara i Carri\'f3, Josep M. 142 Velickovic, B. \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=pe8ZAQAAIAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NKXdUKneKMbw0QGGgYHQCA&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAzge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Multivariate approximation: recent trends and results :  - Page 26}}\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Multivariate Approximation Theory Held at Witten-Bommerholz, Germany, September 29-October 4, 1996
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Werner+Haussmann%22&ei=NKXdUKneKMbw0QGGgYHQCA&ved=0CEUQ9AgwAzge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Werner Haussmann}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22K.+Jetter%22&ei=NKXdUKneKMbw0QGGgYHQCA&ved=0CEYQ9AgwAzge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul K. Jetter}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1995,cd_max:12/31/1997&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Manfred+Reimer%22&ei=NKXdUKneKMbw0QGGgYHQCA&ved=0CEcQ9AgwAzge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Manfred Reimer}} - \uc0\u8234 Akademie Verlag, 1997\uc0\u8236    \uc0\u8234 ISBN3055017706, 9783055017704\uc0\u8236 \
Lyubich, L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 : Isometric imbeddings between classical Banach spaces, cubature formulas, and spherical designs, Geom. Dedicata 47 (1993), 327-362. [10] B. Reznick: Sums of even powers of real linear forms, Memoirs Amer. Math.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 1998 11 books 
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=214a1Wri63QC&pg=PA290&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul K-Theory for Operator Algebras - Page 290}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bruce+Blackadar%22&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CFcQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Bruce Blackadar}}
\b0\fs24  - 1998 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  1984] R. H. Herman and L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , "The stable range of C*-algebras", Invent. Math. 77:3 (1984), 553-555. [Higson 1983] N. Higson, On Kasparov Theory, M.a. thesis, Dalhousie University, Halifax, 1983. [Higson 1988] 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=t4zvAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=UuDdUID7EI6F0QHsxYD4CQ&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Quantum symmetries on operator algebras - Page 129}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+E.+Evans%22&ei=UuDdUID7EI6F0QHsxYD4CQ&ved=0CDwQ9AgwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul David E. Evans}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Yasuyuki+Kawahigashi%22&ei=UuDdUID7EI6F0QHsxYD4CQ&ved=0CD0Q9AgwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Yasuyuki Kawahigashi}} - 1998 \
(Herman and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  1984) have shown that (for C* -algebras) topological stable rank is the same as Bass stable rank and (Villadsen (preprint 1997)) has shown that for each n \'80 N, there is a simple C* -algebra of topological stable rank n.\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9fTxAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CFwQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Markov processes and related fields - Volume 4 - Page 70}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone 1998\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  (x,y) = A^(y,x) pm(y) Pm(z)' and apply the previous results. We omit details. Proposition 6.3 is proved. 
\f4 \uc0\u9633 
\f1  The 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  distance. For any x and x' in [0, \'a3] we set (7.1) and then we define the 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  distance D,t(<m(n, u) of. 70 A. De Masi, 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=t1LsSrWKjKQC&pg=PA481&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=suHdUO3YEqqX0QH42YHgBA&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Mass Transportation Problems: Volume I: Theory - Page 404, 442, 469, 481}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=100&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Svetlozar+Todorov+Rachev%22&ei=adJhTYO6EcnZgAeIrej4AQ&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Svetlozar Todorov Rachev}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=100&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ludger+R%C3%BCschendorf%22&ei=adJhTYO6EcnZgAeIrej4AQ&ved=0CDsQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Ludger R\'fcschendorf}} - 1998 - 508 pages\
Wasserstein norm\
llUllu U#(<P) (separable) 
\i metric space
\i0  92 333 shift operator 65, 390 SkorohodI Lebesgue 
\i metric
\i0  34 97 dual form of SP(P1> P2) 97 measure 
\i space
\i0  36 392 
\b ...
\b0  optimal value 252 total variation 
\i distance
\i0  in X(IRd) 134 optimal value of the dual problem 253 absolute pseudomoment \
194 105 Brownian motions 278 LP-
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  / LP-Kantorovich 
\i metric
\i0  40 354 transposed function 172 \'93output\'94 fiow 71 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 On a formula for the L2-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric between measures on Euclidean and Hilbert spaces. Math. Nachr., 147:185\'97 203, 1990.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hNENGtVH8JQC&pg=PA4&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Monge Ampere Equation: Applications to Geometry and Optimization : ... - Page 4}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Luis+A.+Caffarelli%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Luis A. Caffarelli}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Mario+Milman%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CDsQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mario Milman}} - 1998 - 172 pages\
More precisely they show that the heat equation is the 
\i gradient
\i0  flow of the Dirichlet integral with respect to the L2 distance as well as the 
\i gradient
\i0  flow of the entropy with respect to the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance. A weighted combination of these 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=cQk6AQAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAzgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Encyclopedia of biostatistics: SPI-Z, Index: Volume 6}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 4569\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Peter Armitage, Theodore Colton - 1998 - 690 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VAiJNW-5mUgC&pg=PA39&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD4Q6AEwBDi0AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Microsurveys in discrete probability: DIMACS workshop, June 2-6, 1997 - Page 39}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22David+J.+Aldous%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CD8Q9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 David J. Aldous}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22James+Propp%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul James Propp}} - 1998 - 220 pages\
Springer, Lecture Notes in Mathematics, vol. 1117. [3] 
\i Arratia
\i0 , R. (1996) Independence of small prime factors: total variation and 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics, insertions 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ftge2ktIIgUC&pg=PA168&dq=Vaserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCoQ6AEwATgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Methods in ring theory: proceedings of the Trento conference - Page 168}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Vesselin+S.+Drensky%22&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&ved=0CCsQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Vesselin S. Drensky}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.+Giambruno%22&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A. Giambruno}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Sudarshan+K.+Sehgal%22&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Sudarshan K. Sehgal}} - 1998 - 314 pages\
[97] L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , On the group SLo over Dedekind rings of arithmetic type, Math. USSR Sbornik 18 (1972), 321-332. \
[98] L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , The structure of classic arithmetic groups of rank greater than one, Math. USSR Sbornik 20 (1973),\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QQ1cr7B6XqQC&pg=PA119&dq=Vaserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFcQ6AEwCTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Automorphic forms and representations - Page 119}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Daniel+Bump%22&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&ved=0CFgQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Daniel Bump}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone   1998 - 574 pages It is a deep theorem of 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  (1972) that the Hilbert modular group is always generated by these elements, so this 
\b ...
\b0  \
Although we cannot prove 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  result in these notes, we will show that it is true for K = Q(\\/5) (Exercise 1.10.1), 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1138.35002&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 1138.35002}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:santambrogio.filippo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Santambrogio, Filippo}}
\b \
Variational problems in transport theory with mass concentration.
\b0  (English)\
Tesi. Scuola Normale Superiore Pisa (Nuova Serie) 4. Pisa: Edizioni della Normale; Pisa: Scuola Normale Superiore (Dissertation). xxxii, 198~p. EUR~18.00/net; SFR~30.00; \\$~24.95; \\sterling~14.00 (2007). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*35-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *35-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:90B20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 90B20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:49N60"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 49N60}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:Giuseppe%20Buttazzo"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Giuseppe Buttazzo (Pisa)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=h-zUeAsT3rUC&pg=PA111&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Module theory: endomorphism rings and direct sum decompositions in some classes of modules. - Page 111}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alberto+Facchini%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Alberto Facchini}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 1998, 2012  - 285 pages\
Then sr(C(X)) = sr(C
\f5 \uc0\u8727 
\f1 (X)) = dim(X) + 1 [
\i Vasershtein
\i0 ]. Hence the stable range of the\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 1999 18 books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5NZ_44rzqagC&pg=PA297&dq=vaserstein+inauthor:wall&hl=en&sa=X&ei=acPqUNawOamH0QG8yYDQDw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Surgery on Compact Manifolds - Page 297}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 CTC Wall, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=0EJNwlYAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul A 
\b \ulnone Ranicki}} - 1999 -\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22C.+T.+C+AUTOR+WALL%22&sa=X&ei=acPqUNawOamH0QG8yYDQDw&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul C. T. C AUTOR WALL}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22A.+A+AUTOR+RANICKI%22&sa=X&ei=acPqUNawOamH0QG8yYDQDw&ved=0CDcQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul A. A AUTOR RANICKI}} - 1999 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5NZ_44rzqagC&pg=PA297&dq=vaserstein+inauthor:wall&hl=en&sa=X&ei=acPqUNawOamH0QG8yYDQDw&ved=0CDgQuwUwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Preview}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&q=editions:jzEfyFCHai0C&sa=X&ei=acPqUNawOamH0QG8yYDQDw&ved=0CDkQmBYwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul More editions}}\
[VI] 
\i VASERSTEIN
\i0 , L. Stability of the unitary and orthogonal groups over rings with involution. Math. S6. 81 (1970), 328-351.\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.fr/books/about/Metric_structures_for_Riemannian_and_non.html?hl=fr&id=HWm-z3VU9eAC"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i\b\fs28 \cf4 Metric structures for Riemannian and non
\i0 \ul -
\i \ulnone Remannian spaces}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul :\ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 based on "Structures m\'e9triques des vari\'e9t\'e9s Riemanniennes"\uc0\u8236 \
Gromov \uc0\u8234 Springer\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Springer, 1999\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 585 pages\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 ISBN0817638989, 9780817638986\uc0\u8236 \
 Contractions in the 2-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Length 
\i Space
\i0  and Thermalization\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=geXuAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=-ULgUKisC8ix0QGU54CQDg&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBTiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Current developments in mathematics, 1997 - Page 86}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Raoul+Bott%22&ei=-ULgUKisC8ix0QGU54CQDg&ved=0CE8Q9AgwBTiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Raoul Bott}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Arthur+Jaffe%22&ei=-ULgUKisC8ix0QGU54CQDg&ved=0CFAQ9AgwBTiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Arthur Jaffe}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22S.+T.+Yau%22&ei=-ULgUKisC8ix0QGU54CQDg&ved=0CFEQ9AgwBTiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul S. T. Yau}} - 1999 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 diffusion
\i0 . An interesting emerging theme in much current research is the interplay between Monge-Kantorovich mass transform 
\b ...
\b0  Preparatory to describing this procedure, let us first define for the functions /+, /" \'80 V the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=V5r3bkYx6tsC&pg=PA4&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PjrgUOjFIeq20AGL6ID4CQ&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAzha"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Differential Equations Methods for the Monge-Kantorovich Mass Transfer Problem  - Issue 653 - Page 4}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lawrence+C.+Evans%22&ei=PjrgUOjFIeq20AGL6ID4CQ&ved=0CEYQ9AgwAzha"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Lawrence C. Evans}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Wilfrid+Gangbo%22&ei=PjrgUOjFIeq20AGL6ID4CQ&ved=0CEcQ9AgwAzha"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Wilfrid Gangbo}} - 1999 \
The resulting distance and its variants are called the Monge-Kantorovich-Rubinstein-
\i Wasserstein
\i0 -etc. metrics; see Rachev [R] 
\b ...
\b0  We can consequently interpret the limit of (1.21) as p \'97 \'bb oo as an "infinitely fast/infinitely slow" 
\i diffusion
\i0  limit (cf.
\i\b\fs28 \cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/summary?doi=10.1.1.114.877"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Shape recognition via Wasserstein distance}}
\f0\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
Wilfrid Gangbo, Robert J. MacCann - 1999 - 34 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Abstract. The Kantorovich-Rubinstein-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric 
\b ...
\f0\b0 \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=iSXHlclrHswC&pg=PA381&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBziqAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul S\'e9minaire de probabilit\'e9s XXXIII - Page 381}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 385
\fs38 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jacques+Az%C3%A9ma%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs30 \cf2 Jacques Az\'e9ma}}
\b0\fs30 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22M.+Emery%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul M. Emery}}, Michel Ledoux - 1999 - 418 pages
\fs34 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 [2] Abdellaoui, T., et Heinich, H. Sur la 
\i distance
\i0  de deux lois dans le cas vectoriel. C. R. Acad 
\b ...
\b0  3] Aldous, D. J. Shift-
\i coupling
\i0 . 
\b ...
\b0  6] Cuesta-Albertos, J. A., and Matran, C. Notes on the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  in Hilbert spaces. 
\b ...
\b0  \
J. A., Matran, C, and Tuero-Diaz, A . On lower bounds for the i2-
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  in a Hilbert 
\i space
\i0 .\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Pp9UZ16u4r0C&pg=PA402&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEIQ6AEwBTi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic dynamics - Page 402}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Hans Crauel, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Matthias+Gundlach%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CEMQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Matthias Gundlach}} - 1999 - 440 pages\
This extension will be achieved by a combination of Wasserstein metric and weighted Sobolev norm estimates.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aawUtC66A28C&pg=PA87&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=VuDkTuH3Jon50gGXiJnLBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Stochastic partial differential equations: six perspectives - Page 8}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 7
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Ren\'e9 Carmona, Boris Rozovskii - 1999 - 334 pages -\
Let Lip(Rd) = \{/ : Rd -> K : \\f(*)-f(v)\\ < k-y|, l/MI < i, v*,y e Rd\}. if w e MF(Rd), d^v) = sup\{ \\n(f)-v(f) I : / \'a3 Lip(Ud)\} denotes the 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  metric.
\b \

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hNENGtVH8JQC&pg=PA4&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Monge Amp\'e8re equation: applications to geometry and optimization :  - Page 2, 4}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 82, 87, 95, 96, 102, 103
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Applications to Geometry and Optimization : NSF-CBMS Conference on the Monge Amp\uc0\u8236 \'e8\uc0\u8234 re Equation, Applications to Geometry and Optimization, July 9-13, 1997, Florida Atlantic University
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1999,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1999&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Luis+A.+Caffarelli%22&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&ved=0CDQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Luis A. Caffarelli}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1999,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1999&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Luis+A.+Caffarelli%22&q=inauthor:%22Mario+Milman%22&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mario Milman}} - 1999 - 172 pages {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Contemporary+mathematics+-+American+Mathematical+Society%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=7"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Volume 226 of Contemporary mathematics - American Mathematical Society}}
\i \cf4   
\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821809172, 9780821809174\uc0\u8236 \
-Interpolation of the L2 and the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distances. When two densities P0 and pr must be compared, it is very natural to use the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0 .\
 However, sometimes, the simpler L2 
\i distance
\i0  : (1-18) d/Xpo, Pr)2 = j \\po(x) - pr(x)fdx 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QFujrGZjCyAC&pg=PA94&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Recursive partitioning in the health sciences - Page 94}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 95\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1999,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1999&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Heping+Zhang%22&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&ved=0CDoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Heping Zhang}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1999,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1999&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Heping+Zhang%22&q=inauthor:%22Burton+Singer%22&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&ved=0CDsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Burton Singer}} - 1999 - 226 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Qxf0AAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul RAIRO.: Mod\'e9lisation math\'e9matique et analyse num\'e9rique :  }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul   - Page 837, 838, 849, 860\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 M2N.. Mathematical modelling and numerical analysis\uc0\u8236 , Volume 33, Pages 651-1319
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1999,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1999&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Association+fran%C3%A7aise+pour+la+cybern%C3%A9tique+%C3%A9conomique+et+technique%22&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&ved=0CEAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Association fran\'e7aise pour la cybern\'e9tique \'e9conomique et technique}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1999,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1999&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Association+fran%C3%A7aise+pour+la+cybern%C3%A9tique+%C3%A9conomique+et+technique%22&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29%22&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&ved=0CEEQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Centre national de la recherche scientifique (France)}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1999,cd_max:Dec+31_2+1999&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Association+fran%C3%A7aise+pour+la+cybern%C3%A9tique+%C3%A9conomique+et+technique%22&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29%22&q=inauthor:%22Soci%C3%A9t%C3%A9+de+math%C3%A9matiques+appliqu%C3%A9es+et+industrielles%22&ei=p-DkTr7NGKjV0QGmybD2BQ&ved=0CEIQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Soci\'e9t\'e9 de math\'e9matiques appliqu\'e9es et industrielles}} - 1999\
We can introduce a 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric for this purpose. 
\b ...
\b0  is the metric we shall introduce (the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric). 
\b ...
\b0  is the classical convection 
\i diffusion
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5AGmJFc6jncC&pg=PA237&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Algebra, K-Theory, Groups & Education:  - Page }}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul 112, 124, 216, 237\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 On the Occasion of Hyman Bass's 65th Birthday\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hyman+Bass%22&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Hyman Bass}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , T. Tsit-Yuen Lam, Andy R. Magid - 1999 \
88, Birkhauser, 1990, pp. 247-435. [Va69] L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , On the stabilization of the general linear group over a ring, Math. USSR- Sb. 8 (1969), 383-400. [Va71] L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , The stable range of rings and the dimension of topological spaces, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Qe-9aVk2ee8C&pg=PA46&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Difference Sets, Sequences and Their Correlation Properties - Page 46}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 A. Pott, P. Vijay Kumar, Tor Helleseth - 1999 \
While constructing the isometric embedding ^ _> gNW+W (see Lyubich and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  (1993)) he augmented the set of N2/2 lines from Cameron and Seidel (1973) by the standard coordinate frame. This did not increase the set of prescribed
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5NZ_44rzqagC&pg=PA297&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CGYQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Surgery on Compact Manifolds - Page 297}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Charles+Terence+Clegg+Wall%22&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CGgQ9AgwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Charles Terence Clegg Wall}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Andrew+Ranicki%22&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CGkQ9AgwCQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Andrew Ranicki}} - 1999 \
[VI] 
\i VASERSTEIN
\i0 , L. Stability of the unitary and orthogonal groups over rings with involution. Math. S6. 81 (1970), 328-351. [Wl] WAGONER, J. B. Smooth and piecewise linear surgery. Bull. Amer. Math. Soc. 73 (1967), 72-77. [lY2] WAGONER
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=160nucimkPcC&pg=PA339&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Introduction to the Theory of Games: Concepts, Methods, Applications - Page 339}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ferenc+Forg%C3%B3%22&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CEoQ9AgwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Ferenc Forg\'f3}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jeno+Sz%C3%A9p%22&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CEsQ9AgwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jeno Sz\'e9p}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ferenc+Szidarovszky%22&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CEwQ9AgwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Ferenc Szidarovszky}} - 1999 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  279 threat, 291 transfer closed, 26 continuous, 28 FS-convex, 26, 28 quasiconcave, 28 transferable utility, 217 transformation elementary, 56 tree, 4, 280 value, supinf, 98 van Damme, 48 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , 128 veto player, 231 von Neumann, 122, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5nrGFEcrvr4C&pg=PA33&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Number Theory:  - Page 33}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Fifth Conference of the Canadian Number Association, August 17-22, 1996, Carleton University, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Canadian+Number+Theory+Association.+Conference%22&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CFcQ9AgwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Canadian Number Theory Association. Conference}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Rajiv+Gupta%22&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CFgQ9AgwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Rajiv Gupta}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kenneth+S.+Williams%22&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CFkQ9AgwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Kenneth S. Williams}} - 1999\
A. Bremner, Integer points on a special cubic surface, Duke Math. J. 44 (1977), no. 4, 757-765. 4. W. Conn and L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , On sums of three integral cubes, The Rademacher Legacy to Mathematics (University Park, PA, 1992), Contemp.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=p7XIq6Fn5voC&pg=PA35&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=UuDdUID7EI6F0QHsxYD4CQ&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Wolfgang Krull: gesammelte Abhandlungen - Volume 1 - Page 35}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Wolfgang+Krull%22&ei=UuDdUID7EI6F0QHsxYD4CQ&ved=0CEsQ9AgwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Wolfgang Krull}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Paulo+Ribenboim%22&ei=UuDdUID7EI6F0QHsxYD4CQ&ved=0CEwQ9AgwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Paulo Ribenboim}} - 1999 \
Dabei hat man zum Beweis von (i) nur ganz elementare Schlu\'dfweisen der kommutativen Algebra anzuwenden, (ii) benutzt dagegen das Resultat von Q u i 1 1 e n - Suslin-
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [32], [40], 1976: Jeder projektive Modul \'fcber einem 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CQbvAAAAMAAJ&q=Arratia++Wasserstein&dq=Arratia++Wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=UNviUOIrkLvQAeWIgfAD&ved=0CGkQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Number theory in progress:  - Volume 2 - Page 1128}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings of the International Conference on Number Theory organized by the Stefan Banach International Mathematical Center in honour of the 60th birthday of Andrzej Schinzel, Zakopane, Poland, June 30-July 9, 1997. Elementary and analytic number theory\uc0\u8236 , Volume 2
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Andrzej+Schinzel%22&ei=UNviUOIrkLvQAeWIgfAD&ved=0CGsQ9AgwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Andrzej Schinzel}}
\b0\fs24 , K\'e1lm\'e1n Gy\'f6ry, Henryk Iwaniec - 1999\
[A96] 
\i Arratia
\i0 , R., Independence of small prime factors of a uniformly distributed integer : total variation and 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics. Manuscrit, 1996. [AS97] 
\i Arratia
\i0 , R., Stark, D., A total variation distance invariance principle for primes, 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 2000  18 books 
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5TX1Sd2ixUoC&pg=PA78&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Units in Skew Fields - Page 78}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0By Ernst Kleinert    2000
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone L.N. Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=k5OxAAAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=azbgUIXeEOmy0QHyrICgCA&ved=0CDoQ6AEwATg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Stable paretian models in finance - Page 294}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Svetlozar+Todorov+Rachev%22&ei=azbgUIXeEOmy0QHyrICgCA&ved=0CDwQ9AgwATg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Svetlozar Todorov Rachev}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22S.+Mittnik%22&ei=azbgUIXeEOmy0QHyrICgCA&ved=0CD0Q9AgwATg8"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul S. Mittnik}} - 2000\
The methods employed are based on the evaluation of drift and 
\i diffusion
\i0  coefficients over grid points. 
\b ...
\b0  method by replacing the increments of the Wiener process by other "simpler" i.i.d. random variables: He uses Lf- 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7cLaAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=bDLgUKG3I7O30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CDkQ6AEwATgo"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Skorokhod's ideas in probability theory - Page 318}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+Semenovich+Koroli%CD%A1uk%22&ei=bDLgUKG3I7O30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CDsQ9AgwATgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Vladimir Semenovich Koroli
\f4 \uc0\u865 
\f1 uk}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+Semenovich+Koroli%EF%B8%A0u%EF%B8%A1k%22&ei=bDLgUKG3I7O30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CDwQ9AgwATgo"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Vladimir Semenovich Koroli
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 u
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1 k}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nikola%C4%AD+Ivanovich+Portenko%22&ei=bDLgUKG3I7O30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CD0Q9AgwATgo"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Nikola\uc0\u301  Ivanovich Portenko}} - 2000 - Snippet view\
and let (Xt) and (Xi) be two 
\i diffusion
\i0  processes with L and L as their generators. We show thai the Kantorovich- 
\i Wasserstein's
\i0  distance of these two processes is dominated by C\{log[2 + log" (||.4 -.4||L2 )]\}-
\f4 \uc0\u9633 
\f1 > where 7 and C are positive 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1_3xAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Algebra colloquium - Volume 7 - Page 196}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Zhongguo+ke+xue+yuan.+Shu+xue+yan+jiu+suo%22&ei=7NvdUM-OGo6w0AHFyoC4Cw&ved=0CDsQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Zhongguo ke xue yuan. Shu xue yan jiu suo}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2000\
[66] L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Stabilization of unitary and orthogonal groups over a ring, Math. USSR Sbornik 10 (1970) 307-326. [67] L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , On normal subgroups of GL\'84 over a ring, in: Algebraic K-Theory, Lecture Notes in Mathematics,\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wKJqqd8t8KUC&pg=PA263&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CDgQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Polynomial Automorphisms: And the Jacobi Conjecture - Page 263}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:1/1/1998,cd_max:12/31/2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22A+R+P+Van+Den+Essen%22&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CDoQ9AgwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul A R P Van Den Essen}}
\b0\fs24  - 2000 \
A first relationship with rings of differential operators was found by 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  and Kac. They observed that if every ^-endomorphism of the n-th Weyl Algebra A\'84 is surjective, then JC(k, n) follows! It was later remarked by the author that in fact 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jZjzM_-6lDoC&pg=PA63&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Algorithmic Number Theory:  - Page 62, 63}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 4th International Symposium, ANTS-IV Leiden, The Netherlands, July 2-7, 2000 Proceedings\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Lecture+Notes+in+Computer+Science%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=6"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf8 \uc0\u8234 Volume 1838 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Wieb Bosma - 2000\
[PV] Payne, G., 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , L.N.: Sums of three cubes. Pages 443-454 in The Arithmetic of Function Fields, de Gruyter, 1992. [S] Stahlke, C: Algebraic curves over (Q) with many rational points and minimal automorphism group. Lnternational
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mMSrCCPit3cC&pg=PA13&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=p97dUKvwKoa70AHo8IGACA&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Advances in Steiner Trees - Page 13}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Ding-Zhu Du, J.M. Smith, J. Hyam Rubinstein - 2000 \
17] Y.I. Lyubich and L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Isometric Embeddings between Classical Banach Spaces, Cubature Formulas, and Spherical Designs, Geome- triae Dedicata, 47(1993), pp. 327-362. 18] CM. Petty, Equilateral sets in Minkowski space, 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NqIVrbBdBV4C&pg=PA130&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=suHdUO3YEqqX0QH42YHgBA&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul An Introduction to Superprocesses - Page 130}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+1998,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2000&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alison+Etheridge%22&sa=X&ei=suHdUO3YEqqX0QH42YHgBA&ved=0CEEQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Alison Etheridge}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2000\
The 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  on MF (R . ) is given by , v) = sup \{|\{0, ft)-(4,,v\}\\:4,\'80 Lip (Rd) \} . REMARK 7.3. For any 
\i metric space
\i0 , (S,d), we can define the corresponding 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  on Mp(S) in an obvious way. The topology induced on Mp(S) 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6RtNp2BdcDMC&pg=PA174&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBjgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Sorting: a distribution theory - Page 174}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Hosam+Mahmoud+Mahmoud%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Hosam Mahmoud Mahmoud}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2000 - 394 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NqIVrbBdBV4C&pg=PA130&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFEQ6AEwCTgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul An introduction to superprocesses - Page 130}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Alison+Etheridge%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CFIQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Alison Etheridge}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2000 - 187 pages \
Wasserstein metric \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=SgvyAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEAQ6AEwBjhu"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Suid-Afrikaanse statistiese tydskrif: Volumes 34-35}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 192\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=110&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22South+African+Statistical+Association%22&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4bg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 South African Statistical Association}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2000\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=uoiT6N-8kfAC&pg=PA114&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD0Q6AEwBDi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Probability for statisticians - Page 114}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Galen+R.+Shorack%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Galen R. Shorack}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2000 - 585 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=1764176"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR1764176
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2001m:60043)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=75945"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Graf, Siegfried}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=117055"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Luschgy, Harald}} Foundations of quantization for probability distributions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Lecture_Notes_in_Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Lecture Notes in Mathematics, 1730.}} \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
\i0  2000. x+230 pp. ISBN: 3-540-67394-6 (Reviewer: Kalev P\'e4rna), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60E99,%2860F25,62H05,94A12%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 60E99 (60F25 62H05 94A12)}}\cf5 \ul \ulc5 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0Kq6VMGVEUkC&pg=PA56&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBjgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ulc2 Coupling, stationarity, and regeneration - Page 56}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hermann+Thorisson%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CFcQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hermann Thorisson}}
\b0\fs24  - 2000 - 517 pages\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JqAfAQAAIAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAjhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Information theory: 50 years of discovery: Volume 1}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2  - Page 37, 49, 739\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Verd%C3%BA%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CD0Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Sergio Verd\'fa}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Verd%C3%BA%22&q=inauthor:%22Steven+W.+McLaughlin%22&ei=bdDkToKsGOrb0QHqyfDdBQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Steven W. McLaughlin}}, IEEE Information Theory Society - 2000\
Vasershtein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rB7BjYsD2j4C&pg=PA1299&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAThk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Development of mathematics 1950-2000 - Page 1299}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Paul+Pier%22&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Jean-Paul Pier}}
\b0\fs24  - 2000 - 1372 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasershtein
\i0  L.N., Foundations of algebraic K-theory, 89-156.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=q3xSNdApLVEC&pg=PA154&dq=Waserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Selected Works of Ilya Piatetski-Shapiro - Page 154}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 , 283\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Il%CA%B9i%EF%B8%A0a%EF%B8%A1+Iosifovich+Pi%EF%B8%A0a%EF%B8%A1tet%EF%B8%A0s%EF%B8%A1ki%C4%AD-Shapiro%22&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CD4Q9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Il
\f5 \uc0\u697 
\f1 i
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 a
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1  Iosifovich Pi
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 a
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1 tet
\f6 \uc0\u65056 
\f1 s
\f6 \uc0\u65057 
\f1 ki\uc0\u301 -Shapiro}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , James Wesley Cogdell, S. Semen Grigor'evich Gindikin - 2000\
is the group of integral points of a spinor group connected with a quadratic form, in which the number of negative squares, and also the number of positive squares, is not less than two (L. N. 
\i Waserstein
\i0 , in press). In all the cases considered 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8-PuAAAAMAAJ&q=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eWPdULCcN6Xv0QHUo4DwCw&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Amenable groupoids - Page 85}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22C.+Anantharaman-Delaroche%22&ei=eWPdULCcN6Xv0QHUo4DwCw&ved=0CE0Q9AgwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul C. Anantharaman-Delaroche}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jean+Renault%22&ei=eWPdULCcN6Xv0QHUo4DwCw&ved=0CE4Q9AgwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jean Renault}} - 2000\
[L-V] Lyubich, Y.I. and L.N. 
\i Vasserstein
\i0 . Isometric embeddings between classical Banach spaces, cubature formulas and spherical designs. Geom. Dedicata 47 (1993), 327-362. [M] Martinet, J. Les reseaux parfaits des espaces euclidiens.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 2001   11  books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LsM6PL9bFoYC&pg=PA533&dq=vaserstein+intitle:codes&hl=en&sa=X&ei=TTfoUKb8DKqo0AHi1IDwDA&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Codes On Euclidean Spheres - Page 533}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22T+E+O+Ericson%22&sa=X&ei=TTfoUKb8DKqo0AHi1IDwDA&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul T E O Ericson}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Victor+Zinoviev%22&sa=X&ei=TTfoUKb8DKqo0AHi1IDwDA&ved=0CDcQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Victor Zinoviev}} - 2001\
Y.I. Lyubich and L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Isometric embeddings between classical Banach spaces, cubature formulas and spherical designs, Geom. Dedic., Vol. 47, pp. 327-362, 1993. A.L. MacKay, The packing of three-dimensional spheres on the 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=f15FyZuZ3-4C&pg=PA300&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uE_gUMveFqPU0gHg4IHwAQ&ved=0CFwQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 A First Course in Noncommutative Rings - Page 300}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Tsi-Yuen+Lam%22&ei=uE_gUMveFqPU0gHg4IHwAQ&ved=0CF4Q9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Tsi-Yuen Lam}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2001\
If we assume the result of 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  in Ex. ( 1 .25), it will follow that left and right stable range 1 are equivalent properties. 
\b ...
\b0  To show that it is not essential here to assume 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  result, we shall continue to work with the notion of left 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=DPc0zWpgw58C&pg=PA472&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD4Q6AEwBDhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Large deviations and idempotent probability - Page 74, 266, 472}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 , 496, 497\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Anatolii+Puhalskii%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CD8Q9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Anatolii Puhalskii}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2001 - 500 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=RvrWgRGmG64C&pg=PA179&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBziMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Hyperbolic problems: theory, numerics, applications ; ... ...: Volume 1; Volume 8 - Page 179}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Theory, Numerics, Applications : Eighth International Conference in Magdeburg, February/March 2000\uc0\u8236 , Volume 1
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michael+Fey%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michael Fey}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Heinrich+Freist%C3%BChler%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Heinrich Freist\'fchler}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22International+Conference+on+Hyperbolic+Problems%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CE8Q9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul International Conference on Hyperbolic Problems}} - 2001 - 472 pages \
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=F51QWweOYvsC&pg=PA64&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAjigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Probability and statistical models with applications - Page 64}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 65\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ch.+A.+Charalambides%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Ch. A. Charalambides}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Markos+V.+Koutras%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Markos V. Koutras}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22N.+Balakrishnan%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CDUQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul N. Balakrishnan}} - 2001 - 624 pages\
establishing asymptotic results is the Kolmogorov distance (instead of the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  or the total variation distance).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fMZVsMA2910C&pg=PA241&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAziqAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastics in finite and infinite dimensions: in honor of Gopinth Kallianpur - Page 241}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone G. Kallianpur, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Takeyuki+Hida%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Takeyuki Hida}} - 2001 - 410 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0817641378, 9780817641375\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=UELNGL9bXSQC&pg=PA106&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBzi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic processes: theory and methods - Page 106}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22D.+N.+Shanbhag%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 D. N. Shanbhag}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Calyampudi Radhakrishna Rao - 2001 - 967 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=c3fWk8LoSvgC&pg=PA443&dq=Vaserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=i-ZhTenZGIGugQfKyrj4AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFAQ6AEwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Noncommutative Noetherian rings - Page 443}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22John+C.+McConnell%22&ei=i-ZhTenZGIGugQfKyrj4AQ&ved=0CFEQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 John C. McConnell}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22James+Christopher+Robson%22&ei=i-ZhTenZGIGugQfKyrj4AQ&ved=0CFIQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul James Christopher Robson}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Lance+W.+Small%22&ei=i-ZhTenZGIGugQfKyrj4AQ&ved=0CFMQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Lance W. Small}} - 2001 - 636 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=loc_AQAAIAAJ&q=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=7-HkTuOJLuPr0gGA3u3RBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Universite de Paris VII publications mathematiques: Volume 92}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2001,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2001&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institut+des+hautes+%C3%A9tudes+scientifiques+%28Paris,+France%29%22&sa=X&ei=7-HkTuOJLuPr0gGA3u3RBQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Institut des hautes \'e9tudes scientifiques (Paris, France)}}
\b0\fs24  - 2001\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=EgMZAQAAIAAJ&q=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=KOLkTuDfI8j40gHv1-3kBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFgQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Research in stochastic programming}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2  - Page 69, 70, 72\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2001,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2001&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+R.+Birge%22&ei=KOLkTuDfI8j40gHv1-3kBQ&ved=0CFkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul John R. Birge}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2001,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2001&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+R.+Birge%22&q=inauthor:%22N.+C.+P.+Edirisinghe%22&ei=KOLkTuDfI8j40gHv1-3kBQ&ved=0CFoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul N. C. P. Edirisinghe}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2001,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2001&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+R.+Birge%22&q=inauthor:%22N.+C.+P.+Edirisinghe%22&q=inauthor:%22W.+T.+Ziemba%22&ei=KOLkTuDfI8j40gHv1-3kBQ&ved=0CFsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul W. T. Ziemba}} - 2001 - 306 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MuJDfxhVtJ0C&pg=PA483&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=m-LkToZQivXSAdr9kPAF&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul State of the art in probability and statistics:  - Page 483}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 498\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Festschrift for Willem R. Van Zwet
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2001,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2001&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mathisca+de+Gunst%22&ei=m-LkToZQivXSAdr9kPAF&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Mathisca de Gunst}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2001,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2001&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mathisca+de+Gunst%22&q=inauthor:%22Chris+Klaassen%22&ei=m-LkToZQivXSAdr9kPAF&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Chris Klaassen}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2001,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2001&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mathisca+de+Gunst%22&q=inauthor:%22Chris+Klaassen%22&q=inauthor:%22A.+W.+van+der+Vaart%22&ei=m-LkToZQivXSAdr9kPAF&ved=0CDUQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A. W. van der Vaart}} - 2001 - 616 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 2002   17 books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VpQpAQAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein+statistics&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4UvoUMiVFO2G0QGOuoGoAQ&ved=0CE4Q6AEwBTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 FUSION 2002 - Volume 5 - Page 150, 151, 155}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the ... International Conference on Information Fusion, Volume 5
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22International+Society+of+Information+Fusion%22&ei=4UvoUMiVFO2G0QGOuoGoAQ&ved=0CFAQ9AgwBTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul International Society of Information Fusion}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Institute+of+Electrical+and+Electronics+Engineers%22&ei=4UvoUMiVFO2G0QGOuoGoAQ&ved=0CFEQ9AgwBTgo"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers}} - 2002\
Conclusions In this paper we have borrowed the concept of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance from theoretical 
\i statistics
\i0  to introduce what we believe is the first comprehensive L,type theory of distance metrics for 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Brw8BqbzP6AC&pg=PA61&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7kPoUJ7pLoWw0QHi4ICAAg&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Distributions With Given Marginals and 
\i \ulnone Statistical
\i0 \ul  Modeling - Page 61}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Carles M. Cuadras, Josep Fortiana, Jos\'e9 A. Rodr\'edguez-Lallena - 2002 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Brw8BqbzP6AC&pg=PA61&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7kPoUJ7pLoWw0QHi4ICAAg&ved=0CEwQuwUwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Preview}}\
1996) that the square of the L2-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance between two probabilities is greater than or equal to the sum of the squares of the distances 
\b ...
\b0  Tarpey, T. and B. Flury (1996), 'Self-Consistency: A Fundamental Concept in 
\i Statistics
\i0 '. Statist.
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Brw8BqbzP6AC&pg=PA51&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Distributions with given marginals and statistical modelling - Page v, vii, ix, xxi, 50, 51}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 , 52, 55, 57, 61, 244
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Carlos+Mar%C3%ADa+Cuadras%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CFsQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Carlos Mar\'eda Cuadras}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Josep+Fortiana%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CFwQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Josep Fortiana}}, Jos\'e9 A. Rodr\'edguez-Lallena - 2002 - 244 pages\
Wasserstein distance
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7UuT7UZViN0C&pg=PA425&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CC8Q6AEwAjg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Real analysis and probability - Page 425}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 438, 553\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Richard+M.+Dudley%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CDAQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Richard M. Dudley}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2002 - 555 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gUMcv2_NrhkC&pg=PA327&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFAQ6AEwCDg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Goodness-of-fit tests and model validity - Page 327}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 328, 507
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Catherine+Huber-Carol%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CFEQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Catherine Huber-Carol}} - 2002 - 507 pages -\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PZV6yhwa_ZQC&pg=PA29&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCwQ6AEwAThQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Contemporary combinatorics - Page 29}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 88\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22B%C3%A9la+Bollob%C3%A1s%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 B\'e9la Bollob\'e1s}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2002 - 301 pages\
Springer, Lecture Notes in Mathematics, vol. 1117.\
R. ARRATIA* How much dependence is there in the 
\i prime factorization
\i0  of a random 
\i integer distributed uniformly
\i0  from 1 to n? 
\b ...
\b0  respect to 
\i total variation
\i0  distance, considering only 
\i small
\i0  components, and with respect to a 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance, considering 
\b ...
\b0  of changes \'97 insertions and deletions \'97 needed to change the dependent system into an 
\i independent
\i0  system. 
\b ...
\b0  A corollary of this construction is the first 
\i metric
\i0  bound on the distance to the Poisson-Dirichlet in Billingsley's 1972 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NA8ZAQAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=MkLgUKTGH-e-0QG0h4HQAw&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBTiCAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Proceedings of the International Congress of Mathematicians: ... - Volume 1 - Page 185}}
\f1 \
Daqian Li - \uc0\u8234 Higher Education Press\uc0\u8236 , 2002 - 2439 pages -\
a) It was pointed out by Otto, that the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric can be used to describe\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=cPkPeiZOGaUC&pg=PA162&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAziWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Partial differential equations: Mark Vishik's seminar - Page 162}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf2 M{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22M.+I.+Vishik%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt . I. Vishik}}\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22M.+S.+Agranovich%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul M. S. Agranovich}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Mikhail+Aleksandrovich+Shubin%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CDsQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mikhail Aleksandrovich Shubin}} - 2002 - 278 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QVyc0coIjhMC&pg=PA264&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFIQ6AEwCDiqAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Handbook of stochastic analysis and applications - Page 264}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22D.+Kannan%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CFMQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2  Kannan}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22V.+Lakshmikantham%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul V. Lakshmikantham}} - 2002 - 763 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xMe-Uf2sFL4C&pg=PA56&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAji-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Numerical methods and stochastics: Volume 1999 - Page 56}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22T.+J.+Lyons%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 T. J. Lyons}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Thomas+Stephenson+Salisbury%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Thomas Stephenson Salisbury}} - 2002 - 121 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
'\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yFjsTBKGnTQC&pg=PA41&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEIQ6AEwBTjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Decision making under uncertainty: energy and power - Page 41}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Claude+Greengard%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CEMQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Claude Greengard}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Andrzej+Ruszczy%C5%84ski%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CEQQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Andrzej Ruszczy\uc0\u324 ski}} - 2002 - 154 pages\
Wasserstein dis-\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GUwyU1ypd1wC&pg=PA177&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Lectures on the coupling method - Page vi, 38, 41, 177}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 255, 256\cf0 \ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Torgny+Lindvall%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Torgny Lindvall}}
\b0\fs24  - 2002 - 272 pages\
Vasershtein coupling\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.worldcat.org/title/lectures-on-probability-theory-and-statistics/oclc/470052591?referer=di&ht=edition"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Lectures on probability theory and statistics:  - Page 307}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Ecole d'Ete de Probabilites de Saint-Flour XXIX - 1999
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Erwin+Bolthausen%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Erwin Bolthausen}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Erwin+Bolthausen%22&q=inauthor:%22Edwin+Arend+Perkins%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Edwin Arend Perkins}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Erwin+Bolthausen%22&q=inauthor:%22Edwin+Arend+Perkins%22&q=inauthor:%22A.+W.+van+der+Vaart%22&ei=D8jkToq_COHu0gGC0s3rBQ&ved=0CEIQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A. W. van der Vaart}} - 2002 - 466 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.worldcat.org/search?qt=hotseries&q=se%3A%22Lecture+notes+in+mathematics%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Lecture notes in mathematics}}, 1781 ISBN: 978-3-540-43736-9 (Print) 978-3-540-47944-4 (Online)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LB3xAAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=48vkTvOYF-bL0QHoqPCMBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAjgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Sankhy\uc0\u257 : methods and techniques: Volume 64, Pages 509-901}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Statistical Publishing Company\uc0\u8236 , 2002
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Q6K-FIsH6RQC&pg=PA483&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ulc4 Geometric Analysis and Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations - Page 483}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Stefan Hildebrandt, Hermann Karcher - 2002\
 The Dobrushin approach is based on a comparison of these measures for different boundary conditions in the Kantorovich(- Ornstein-Rubinstein-
\i Vasserstein
\i0 ) metric\

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=f2c9qYPh4dQC&pg=PA4&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CFQQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ulc4 Higher Franz-Reidemeister Torsion - Page 4}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kiyoshi+Igusa%22&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CFYQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Kiyoshi Igusa}}
\b0\fs24  - 2002\
It is a theorem of Wagoner and 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  best explained by Suslin [SusS1], [Sus82] that the higher Volodin A'-theory of R also gives the usual algebraic A'-theory groups of R as defined by Quillen.
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf2 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone MR1878556   Lang, Serge Algebra. Revised third edition. Graduate Texts in Mathematics, 211. Springer-Verlag, New York, 2002. xvi+914 pp. ISBN: 0-387-95385-X 00A05 (15-02). Lang.djvu 7MB
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qc

\b \cf0 2003 19 items
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rziJHx6OQPkC&pg=PA85&dq=Shape+Recognition+Using+Metrics+on+the+Space+of+Shapes+wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ouPxUK3DAqfo0gH-p4GgBQ&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Mathematical Methods in Computer Vision - Page 85}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Peter J. Olver, Allen Tannenbaum - 2003 \
D. Fry, 
\i Shape Recognition Using Metrics on the Space of Shapes
\i0 , Ph.D. Thesis, Harvard University, 1993. 
\b ...
\b0  W. Gangbo and R. McCann, "
\i Shape recognition
\i0  via 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance," Technical Report, School of Mathematics, Georgia 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-0jQrtSvvfUC&pg=PA1041&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8EHoUObwE6rD0AHM24HYBw&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Advanced Medical 
\i \ulnone Statistics
\i0 \ul  - Page 1041}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ying+L%C3%BC%22&sa=X&ei=8EHoUObwE6rD0AHM24HYBw&ved=0CEoQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Ying L\'fc}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ji-Qian+Fang%22&sa=X&ei=8EHoUObwE6rD0AHM24HYBw&ved=0CEsQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Ji-Qian Fang}} - 2003\
Use of the difference I begin the introduction of splitting rules with the use of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics to measure the between-nodes distributional 
\b ...
\b0  
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=S3pZbAByfDgC&pg=PA17&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uE_gUMveFqPU0gHg4IHwAQ&ved=0CDQQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Exercises in Classical Ring Theory - Page 17}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22T.Y.+Lam%22&ei=uE_gUMveFqPU0gHg4IHwAQ&ved=0CDYQ9AgwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 T.Y. Lam}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2003 \
Ex. 1.2,'i. (
\i Vaserstein
\i0 ) Let a, b, c be such that ab + c = 1 in a ring R. If there exists x C R such that a + ex C U(/?), show that there exists y \'80 /? such that; 6 + T/c C \
Solution. Write u = a + ex C U(/?). We claim that the element y : = (1 - 6x)u-1 works,\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=uGhGAAAAYAAJ&q=vaserstein%27s&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Introduction to linear programming}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Leonid+Nison+Vaserstein%22&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CEQQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Leonid Nison Vaserstein}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Christopher+Cattelier+Byrne%22&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CEUQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Christopher Cattelier Byrne}} - 2003 \
This book makes Linear Programming easily accessible to any reader, regardless of his or her mathematical background.
\b\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oBPvAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+coupling&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Logarithmic combinatorial structures: a probabilistic approach}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Richard+Arratia%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Richard Arratia}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.+D.+Barbour%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CE8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A. D. Barbour}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Simon+Tavar%C3%A9%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CFAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Simon Tavar\'e9}} -
\b - Page 67, 68, 185, 279, 359\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 I\uc0\u8234 BN3037190000, 9783037190005\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1040.60001&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 1040.60001}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:arratia.richard"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Arratia, Richard}}
\b ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:barbour.andrew-d"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Barbour, A. D.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:tavare.simon"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Tavar\'e9, Simon}}\
Logarithmic combinatorial structures: A probabilistic approach.
\b0  (English)\
EMS Monographs in Mathematics. Z\'fcrich: European Mathematical Society (EMS). xi, 363~p.  (2003). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*60-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *60-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:05-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 05-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:05A05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 05A05}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:Hsien-Kuei%20Hwang"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Hsien-Kuei Hwang (Taipei)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=2032426"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Review in MR 2032426 (2004m:60004)}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GqRXYFxe0l0C&pg=PA264&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFEQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Topics in optimal transportation - Page 264}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 357, 368\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22C%C3%A9dric+Villani%22&sa=X&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&ved=0CFIQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 C\'e9dric Villani}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2003 - 370 pages\
Kinderlehrer, D., and Walkington, N. J. Approximation of parabolic equations using the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric. M2AN Math. Model. Numer. Anal. 33, 4 (1999), 837\'96852.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=931HQwKMiKkC&pg=PA32&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwATge"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Challenges in scientific computing--CISC 2002: proceedings of the conference - Page 32}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 33, 36\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Eberhard+B%C3%A4nsch%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Eberhard B\'e4nsch}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2003 - 285 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=F9OPR5HUXL0C&pg=PA2&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwATgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mathematical aspects of evolving interfaces:  - Page 2}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 5, 16, 28, 49 
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Lectures Given at the C.I.M.-C.I.M.E. Joint Euro-Summer School Held in Madeira, Funchal, Portugal, July 3-9, 2000\uc0\u8236 , Issue 1812\'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Luigi+Ambrosio%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Luigi Ambrosio}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Pierluigi+Colli%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Pierluigi Colli}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jos%C3%A9-Francisco+Rodrigues%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CC4Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jos\'e9-Francisco Rodrigues}} - 2003 - 243 pages {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Lecture+notes+in+mathematics+%28Springer-Verlag%29+%3B+1812%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=9"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Lecture notes in mathematics (Springer-Verlag) ; 1812}}
\i \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i0 \cf0 Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Ej0VrZLsgMsC&pg=PA554&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDcQ6AEwAzgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Spin glasses: a challenge for mathematicians : - Page}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mDh4GThFZHUC&pg=PA349&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAjgo"}}{\fldrslt 5548, 54 }}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Cavity and Mean Field Models\uc0\u8236 , Volume 46
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michel+Talagrand%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michel Talagrand}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2003 - 586 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3540003568, 9783540003564\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=59epAwZ5OXIC&pg=PA248&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Cooperative control: models, applications, and algorithms - Page 248}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Sergiy+Butenko%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Sergiy Butenko}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Robert+Murphey%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Robert Murphey}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Panos+M.+Pardalos%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CCkQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Panos M. Pardalos}} - 2003 - 364 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vjn_GTn_-v8C&pg=PA135&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAzg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Multidisciplinary research in control:  - Page 135}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 141\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone The Mohammed Dahleh Symposium 2002\cf2 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Laura+Giarr%C3%A9%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CDUQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Laura Giarr\'e9}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Bassam+Bamieh%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CDYQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Bassam Bamieh}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Mohammed+A.+Dahleh%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mohammed A. Dahleh}} - 2003 - 229 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 W. Gangbo and R. McGann, \'93
\i Shape recognition
\i0  via 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance,\'94 Technical Report, School of Mathematics, Georgia 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wvMdZ5XdNM4C&pg=PA88&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwAThG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Optimal transportation and applications: lectures given at the ...: Issue 1813 - Page v, 44, 45, 59, 64, 65, 67, 68, 70, 71, 74, 80, 83, 88}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Lectures Given at the C.I.M.E. Summer School Held in Martina Franca, Italy, September 2-8, 2001\uc0\u8236 , Issue 1813
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Luigi+Ambrosio%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Luigi Ambrosio}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Luis+A.+Caffarelli%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Luis A. Caffarelli}}, S. Salsa - 2003 - 171 pages {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Lecture+Notes+in+Mathematics%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=8"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Volume 1813 of Lecture Notes in Mathematics}}
\i \cf4  
\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN354040192X, 9783540401926\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rZgSRTmOMuoC&pg=PA40&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBjhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul IUTAM Symposium on Computational Mechanics of Solid Materials at Large Strains - Page }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul 39, 40\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Christian+Miehe%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Christian Miehe}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2003 - 478 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dsc__S1wbhsC&pg=PA362&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Evolution equations:  - Page 362}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Applications to Physics, Industry, Life Science and Economics : Eveq2000 Conference in Levico Terme (Trenton, Italy) October 30-November 4, 2000\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Mimmo+Iannelli%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CEUQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Mimmo Iannelli}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22G%C3%BCnter+Lumer%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CEYQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul G\'fcnter Lumer}} - 2003 - 423 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Q6K-FIsH6RQC&pg=PA657&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBTi0AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Geometric analysis and nonlinear partial differential equations - Page 657}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Stefan+Hildebrandt%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CEUQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Stefan Hildebrandt}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Hermann+Karcher%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CEYQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Hermann Karcher}} - 2003 - 673 pages -\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=csx5Y24asMIC&pg=PA124&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBji-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Recent advances and trends in nonparametric statistics - Page 124}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 137\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michael+G.+Akritas%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michael G. Akritas}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Dimitris+N.+Politis%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Dimitris N. Politis}} - 2003 - 512 pages\
theorems for the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance between the empirical and the true distributions,\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7ZEEkf9XziMC&pg=PA189&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Trends in nonlinear analysis - Page 189}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Markus+Kirkilionis%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Markus Kirkilionis}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2003 - 419 pages\
The author uses the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric. He gets an evolution 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rhv0AAAAMAAJ&q=vasershtein&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=JtjeUPXGBe670QGTlIHYBA&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBjge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul RAIRO.: Mod\'e9lisation math\'e9matique et analyse num\'e9rique :  - Page 78}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 79, 80\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 M2N.. Mathematical modelling and numerical analysis\uc0\u8236 , Volume 37, Pages 1-556\
\uc0\u8234 Dunod\uc0\u8236 , 2003 
\b\fs28  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Association+fran%C3%A7aise+pour+la+cybern%C3%A9tique+%C3%A9conomique+et+technique%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CFAQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Association fran\'e7aise pour la cybern\'e9tique \'e9conomique et technique}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Association+fran%C3%A7aise+pour+la+cybern%C3%A9tique+%C3%A9conomique+et+technique%22&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CFEQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Centre national de la recherche scientifique (France)}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Association+fran%C3%A7aise+pour+la+cybern%C3%A9tique+%C3%A9conomique+et+technique%22&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29%22&q=inauthor:%22Soci%C3%A9t%C3%A9+de+math%C3%A9matiques+appliqu%C3%A9es+et+industrielles%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CFIQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Soci\'e9t\'e9 de math\'e9matiques appliqu\'e9es et industrielles}} \
One of these metrics is known as the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance [19,32]. 
\b ...
\b0  The 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance between n and v can be rewritten as the L2-distance of the\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=sLDGY4Hk8V0C&pg=PA540&dq=vaserstein+sehgal&hl=en&sa=X&ei=YwPgUIrSO5Og0gGh3IDgDA&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Handbook of Algebra - Volume 3 - Page 540}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michiel+Hazewinkel%22&ei=YwPgUIrSO5Og0gGh3IDgDA&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Michiel Hazewinkel}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2003 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qc

\b \cf0 2004, 31 books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=21bxAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+norm+-Wendy&dq=Wasserstein+norm+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=V8_xUKvJOuPb0QHRqIHgCQ&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAThG"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Analele Universit\uc0\u259 \u539 ii din Craiova: Seria Matematic\u259 , informatic\u259  - Issues 31-32 - Page 44}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Universitatea+din+Craiova.+Faculty+of+Mathematics+%26+Informatics%22&ei=V8_xUKvJOuPb0QHRqIHgCQ&ved=0CDQQ9AgwAThG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf8 \ulc8 Universitatea din Craiova. Faculty of Mathematics & Informatics}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Universitatea+din+Craiova.+Faculty+of+Mathematics+and+Computer+Science%22&ei=V8_xUKvJOuPb0QHRqIHgCQ&ved=0CDUQ9AgwAThG"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Universitatea din Craiova. Faculty of Mathematics and Computer Science}} - 2004 - Snippet view - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&q=editions:sF22l7qXUS8C&ei=V8_xUKvJOuPb0QHRqIHgCQ&ved=0CDYQmBYwAThG"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 More editions}}\
1 in terms of the law of the process Xt by introducing the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance Wk, k being a positive integer (see [1]). For k = 1, the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance W\\ between two measures \\i and v can be defined as the dual of the \\.]\\iP-
\i norm
\i0 : Wx\{n,u) 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=l_zJLRh8CkAC&pg=PA279&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCcQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic inequalities and applications - Page v, 33, 34, 278, 279}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 281, 283, 285, 287, 289, 293, 295\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Evarist+Gin%C3%A9%22&sa=X&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&ved=0CCgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Evarist Gin\'e9}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Christian+Houdr%C3%A9%22&sa=X&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&ved=0CCkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Christian Houdr\'e9}}, David Nualart - \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2004\uc0\u8236  - 365 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3764321970, 9783764321970\uc0\u8236 \
In the present paper we modify d(Fn, F) into a finite quantity for all F by an adaptation of the notion of trimming from 
\i statistics
\i0 , and study the asymptotic distributions of these trimmed 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distances for appropriate classes of distribution 
\b ...\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gD5lGVWo9gIC&pg=PA160&dq=Wasserstein+metric+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=72fdUMnBCc_W0gHazoGwDA&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Partial Differential Equations and Inverse Problems:  - Page v, 144, 145, 147, 160}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 161, 162, 163, 164, 170, 172, 186\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Pan-american Advanced Studies Institute On Partial Differential Equations, Nonlinear Analysis And Inverse Problems, January 6-18, 2003, Santiago, Chil\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Contemporary+Mathematics+Series%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=8"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Issue 362 of Contemporary Mathematics Series}}
\f0 \
Carlos Conca - 
\f1 \uc0\u8234 American Mathematical Soc., 2004
\f0 \uc0\u8236  - 410 pages 
\f1 \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821834487, 9780821834480
\f0 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 More precisely, one can estimate the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance by computing directly the equation for the pseudo-inverse of the distribution function. This technique has been recently applied to general 
\i diffusion
\i0  equations (see the review paper 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=zD50Y61NnKYC&pg=PA173&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul From Markov chains to non-equilibrium particle systems - Page 8, 173}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 542\
M{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Mufa+Chen%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CFQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 ufa Chen}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2004 - 597 pages\
Vallender, S. S.(1973), Calculation of the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  between probability distributions on line, Theory Prob.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9aXOR9HzptMC&pg=PA190&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBzgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Nonlinear differential equation models - Page 190}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 191, 192 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ansgar+J%C3%BCngel%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Ansgar J\'fcngel}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2004 - 192 pages\
Commun Math Phys 203: 667-706 [26] 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  LN (1969) Markov processes on countable product space describing large systems of automata (in Russian).\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ugVa12hGuRcC&pg=PA103&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Recent advances in the theory and applications of mass transport:  - Page 1, 2, 16, 17, 24, 97, 98, 101, 103}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 104, 107\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Summer School On Mass Transportation Methods In Kinetic Theory And Hydrodynamics, September 4-9, 2000, Ponta Delgada, Azores, Portugal\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Contemporary+Mathematics+Series%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=8"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Volume 353 of Contemporary Mathematics Series}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Maria da Concei\'e7\'e3o Vieira de Carvalho, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jos%C3%A9-Francisco+Rodrigues%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jos\'e9-Francisco Rodrigues}} - \uc0\u8234 American Mathematical Soc., 2004\uc0\u8236  - 109 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821832786, 9780821832783\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance, Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=faFpceQjPoIC&pg=PA38&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDsQ6AEwBDg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Applied mathematics entering the 21st century:  - Page 37, 38}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 47\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Invited Talks from the ICIAM 2003 Congress
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22James+M.+Hill%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CDwQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 James M. Hill}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ross+Moore%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CD0Q9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Ross Moore}} - \uc0\u8234 SIAM, 2004\uc0\u8236  - 413 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0898715598, 9780898715590\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  dissipative equations (porous medium equations, lubrication equations, limited flux 
\i diffusion
\i0  equations, granular flow equations,...) were discovered to be gradient flows of some suitable functionals with respect to the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance.\
A modern treatment of this problem was initiated by Kantorovich in 1942, based on a 
\i probabilistic approach
\i0  to reduce it to an infinite dimensional linear program. 
\b ...
\b0  and the related concept of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance, as referred, for instance, \
in the recent book by Rachev and Riischendorf.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GAlZ2i5kESkC&pg=PA577&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBzg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Numerical mathematics and advanced applications: proceedings of Enumath 2003  - Page 574, 577}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Miloslav+Feistauer%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CEwQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Miloslav Feistauer}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2004 - 863 pages \
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8lNTeFg85jIC&pg=PA285&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAjhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Free boundary problems: theory and applications - Page 285}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Pierluigi+Colli%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Pierluigi Colli}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Claudio+Verdi%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Claudio Verdi}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Augusto+Visintin%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Augusto Visintin}} - 2004 - 346 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=H9jMu08MrgkC&pg=PA381&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=6dFhTcifHsjZgAftmKy6Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBjha"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Operations research proceedings 2003:  - Page 381}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Selected Papers of the International Conference on Operations Research (Or 2003) Heidelberg, September 3-5 2003\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=90&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Dino+Ahr%22&ei=6dFhTcifHsjZgAftmKy6Ag&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Dino Ahr}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=90&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Roland+Fahrion%22&ei=6dFhTcifHsjZgAftmKy6Ag&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Roland Fahrion}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=90&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marcus+Oswald%22&ei=6dFhTcifHsjZgAftmKy6Ag&ved=0CEIQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Marcus Oswald}} - 2004 - 490 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=RYbS938q92EC&pg=PA147&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFgQ6AEwCTiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Discrete geometric analysis: proceedings of  - Page 147}}\cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 The First JAMS Conference, Discrete Geometric Analysis, December 12-20, 2002, Sendai, Japan\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Motoko Kotani, Tomoyuki Shirai, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Toshikazu+Sunada%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Toshikazu Sunada}} - 2004 - 258 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0376RACMJcQC&pg=PA96&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBDiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Unusual applications of number theory:  - Page 96}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Dimacs Workshop, Unusual Applications of Number Theory, January 10-14, 2000, Dimacs Center\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Melvyn+B.+Nathanson%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Melvyn B. Nathanson}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2004 - 264 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=27-CIzigJyIC&pg=PR7&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBTigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Young measures on topological spaces: with applications in control }}
\b  theory and probability theory.
\b0  (English){\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=27-CIzigJyIC&pg=PR7&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBTigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page vii}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Charles+Castaing%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CEcQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Charles Castaing}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Paul+Raynaud+de+Fitte%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Paul Raynaud de Fitte}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michel+Valadier%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Michel Valadier}} - 2004 - 320 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1067.28001&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 1067.28001}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:castaing.charles"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Castaing, Charles}}
\b ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:raynaud-de-fitte.paul"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Raynaud de Fitte, Paul}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:valadier.michel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Valadier, Michel}}\
Young measures on topological spaces. With applications in control theory and probability theory.
\b0  (English)\
Mathematics and its Applications (Dordrecht) 571. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers. xii, 320~p. (2004). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*28-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *28-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:28A33"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 28A33}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:28C15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 28C15}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:Riccardo%20De%20Arcangelis"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Riccardo De Arcangelis (Napoli)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oP4ZJxBE1csC&pg=PA57&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFIQ6AEwCDi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Advances in survival analysis - Page 57}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22N.+Balakrishnan%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CFMQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2  Balakrishnan}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Calyampudi Radhakrishna Rao - 2004 - 795 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wsXWR-l1ZcAC&pg=PA46&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAzjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Functional analysis and its applications:  - Page 46}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the International Conference on Functional Analysis and Its Applications, Dedicated to the 110th Anniversary of Stefan Banach, May 28-31, 2002, Lviv, Ukraine, Issue 197
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+M.+Kadet%CD%A1s%CD%A1%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 ladimir M. Kade
\f4 t\uc0\u865 s\u865 }}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Wies%C5%82aw+%C5%BBelazko%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Wies\uc0\u322 aw \u379 elazko}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Stefan+Banach%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Stefan Banach}} - \uc0\u8234 Elsevier, 2004\uc0\u8236  - 326 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0444513736, 9780444513731\uc0\u8236 \
Wasse rstein distances\
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MqEBj59xEQoC&pg=PA830&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc5 Handbook of computational statistics: concepts and methods - Page 830}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc5 \
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22James+E.+Gentle%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 James E. Gentle}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Wolfgang+H%C3%A4rdle%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CCgQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Wolfgang H\'e4rdle}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Yuichi+Mori%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CCkQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Yuichi Mori}} - 2004 - 1070 pages \
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.complex.org.au/tiki-download_file.php?fileId=79"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf0 Australian Research Counci}}
\b    
\b0 Centre of Excellence for Mathematics and Statistics of Complex Systems Anual Report 2004  pdf  
\b - Page 48
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720

\f9\i\fs18 \cf0 IMPROVED RESULTS ON POISSON PROCESS APPROXIMATION IN JACKSON NETWORKS
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs19 \cf0 Aihua Xia (Chief Investigator), Tim Brown (Australian National University) and Mark Fackrell (The University of Melbourne)\cf9 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\i0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1TfVy2AD3PkC&pg=PA136&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rings and things and a fine array of twentieth century associative qlgebra - Page 136}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carl+Clifton+Faith%22&ei=lMTkTo2mPMXk0QH4643XBQ&ved=0CEcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Carl Clifton Faith}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2004 - 475 pages\
This answered a question of Handelman and 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 , and the proof required a theorem of 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  [71].\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oVCBKOZiAawC&pg=PA35&dq=Wasserstein+metric+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=72fdUMnBCc_W0gHazoGwDA&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Eigenvalues, Inequalities, and Ergodic Theory - Page 35}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mu-Fa+Chen%22&sa=X&ei=72fdUMnBCc_W0gHazoGwDA&ved=0CFcQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Mu-Fa Chen}}
\b0\fs24  - 2004 \
When 7 is a distance, EX.y7(X\'ab, Yt) is nothing but the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  W = W\\ with respect to 7 of the distributions at time t. \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=RYbS938q92EC&pg=PA147&dq=Wasserstein+metric+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=72fdUMnBCc_W0gHazoGwDA&ved=0CFsQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Discrete Geometric Analysis:  - Page 147}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 The First JAMS Conference, Discrete Geometric Analysis, December 12-20, 2002, Sendai, Japan
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 Motoko Kotani, Tomoyuki Shirai, Toshikazu Sunada - 2004 \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821833510, 9780821833513\uc0\u8236 \
 Let (X,d) be a crystal lattice with the graph distance d. 
\b ...
\b0  2-
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0 .
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=bgBAAQAAIAAJ&pg=PA327&dq=Wasserstein+metric+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=72fdUMnBCc_W0gHazoGwDA&ved=0CF8Q6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Rendiconti Lincei: Matematica e applicazioni - Page 327}}\cf4 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Accademia+nazionale+dei+Lincei.+Classe+di+scienze+fisiche,+matematiche+e+naturali%22&sa=X&ei=72fdUMnBCc_W0gHazoGwDA&ved=0CGEQ9AgwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Accademia nazionale dei Lincei. Classe di scienze fisiche, matematiche e naturali}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2004\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=27-CIzigJyIC&pg=PA77&dq=Wasserstein+metric+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AGzdULLQHaGU0QHWpYHoCw&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Young Measures on Topological Spaces: - Page 77}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 with Applications in Control Theory and Probability Theory\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Charles+Castaing%22&ei=AGzdULLQHaGU0QHWpYHoCw&ved=0CD4Q9AgwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Charles Castaing}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Paul+Raynaud+de+Fitte%22&ei=AGzdULLQHaGU0QHWpYHoCw&ved=0CD8Q9AgwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Paul Raynaud de Fitte}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michel+Valadier%22&ei=AGzdULLQHaGU0QHWpYHoCw&ved=0CEAQ9AgwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Michel Valadier}} - 2004 \
The space Lip^ef) can be 
\b ...
\b0  3.4. PARAMETRIZED LEVY-
\i WASSERSTEIN
\i0  DISTANCES 77.
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tv_xAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+metric+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+metric+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AGzdULLQHaGU0QHWpYHoCw&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Advances in mathematical sciences and applications - Volume 14, Pages 1-712 - Page 153}}\cf4 \ul , 155\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 2004\
1.2 Gradient flow and 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  The notion of gradient flow, or steepest descent, only has meaning when an appropriate metric is defined on the manifold. Consequently, a certain evolution problem can be given different gradient
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oIjr4rcM0fcC&pg=PA193&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=U23dUNr1I8i10QGvn4D4CQ&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Dynamics and Randomness}}\cf4 \ul  - Page 193\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Alejandro Maass, Servet Mart\'ednez, Jaime San Mart\'edn - 2004\
We endow C^ with the uniform metric and P(C^) with the 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  metric ( f i, v) = inf < / d(x, y) A l)R(dx, dy)\\ R has marginals // and compatible with the topology of the weak convergence. Hence By Proposition 4.13, and (4.32) lim E (d (((T1, 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=psYabGhcQ2EC&pg=PA117&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=U23dUNr1I8i10QGvn4D4CQ&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Seminar of Mathematical Analysis: - Page 117}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 proceedings, Universities of Malaga and Seville (Spain), September 2003-June 2004
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Genaro+L%C3%B3pez+Acedo%22&sa=X&ei=U23dUNr1I8i10QGvn4D4CQ&ved=0CDwQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Genaro L\'f3pez Acedo}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Rafael+Villa+Caro%22&sa=X&ei=U23dUNr1I8i10QGvn4D4CQ&ved=0CD0Q9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Rafael Villa Caro}} - 2004 \
Lyubich, L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Isometric imbeddings between classical Ba- nach spaces, cubature formulas, and spherical designs, Geom. Dedic. , 47 (1993), 327-362. 16] V.D. Milman, A
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Snecq4MHl8YC&pg=PA30&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=U23dUNr1I8i10QGvn4D4CQ&ved=0CEEQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Group Theory: Selected Problems - Page 30}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22B.+Sury%22&sa=X&ei=U23dUNr1I8i10QGvn4D4CQ&ved=0CEMQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 B. Sury}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2004\
ASIDE This proof is due to 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 . 
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1TfVy2AD3PkC&pg=PA370&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Rings And Things And A Fine Array Of Twentieth Century Associative Algebra - Page 345, 370}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Carl+Clifton+Faith%22&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CEgQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Carl Clifton Faith}}
\b0\fs24  - AMS 2004
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GYdDXbQKgkMC&pg=PA192&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Geometric Aspects of Functional Analysis: Israel Seminar 2002-2003 - Page 192}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Vitali D. Milman, Gideon Schechtman - 2004\
I., 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , L.N.: Isometric embeddings between classical Banach spaces, cubature formulas and spherical designs. Geom. Dedicata, 47, 327-362 (1993) [M] Milman, V.D.: A few observations on the connections between local theory and 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1AP2CEGxTkgC&pg=PA216&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Unsolved Problems in Number Theory - Page 151, 152, 216}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Richard+Guy%22&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CFIQ9AgwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Richard Guy}}
\b0\fs24  - 2004\
Barry Cipra, Science, 239(1988) 464; and James Glieck, New York Times, 88-04-17. Rachel Gar-el k. Leonid 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ZN3uAAAAMAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CFsQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Proceedings of the International Conference on Algebraic Groups and Arithmetic, Mumbai, 2001 - Page 30}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22S.+G.+Dani%22&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CF0Q9AgwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul S. G. Dani}}
\b0\fs24 , Gopal Prasad, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2004,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2004&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Tata+Institute+of+Fundamental+Research%22&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CF4Q9AgwCA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Tata Institute of Fundamental Research}} - 2004\
Following the ideas of Bass, Milnor and Serre, L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  proved this, by a case-by-case analysis, for most of the classical groups. In his first, and very important, paper [17] on the congruence subgroup problem, Raghunathan proved the 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aK7xAAAAMAAJ&q=Vaserstein&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jG7dUJOeDvLh0wHxh4DYBg&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Nanjing da xue xue bao: - Volume 21 - Page 196, 197}}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 200\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 2004 \
and only if R/JCR) satisfies stable range one (see 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [7]) . Thus a ring R is u- nit semiregular if and only if R is a weakly unit-regular ring and idempotents can be lifted modulo J(i?) . The following lemma dues to [3, Lemma 3.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\

\b 2005, 21 items
\b0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=cXIOZ3YwiAcC&pg=PA29&dq=Issues+in+Algebra,+Geometry,+and+Topology:+vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7vTrUPStE6nr0QG3pICIAg&ved=0CEsQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Commutative 
\i \ulnone Algebra
\i0 \ul  and 
\i \ulnone Algebraic Geometry
\i0 \ul : Joint International  - Page 29}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Joint International Meeting of the American Mathematical Society and the Indian Mathematical Society on Commutative Algebra and Algebraic Geometry, Bangalore, India, December 17-20, 2003
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sudhir+R..+Ghorpade%22&ei=7vTrUPStE6nr0QG3pICIAg&ved=0CE0Q9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Sudhir R.. Ghorpade}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hema+Srinivasan%22&ei=7vTrUPStE6nr0QG3pICIAg&ved=0CE4Q9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Hema Srinivasan}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jugal+Verma%22&ei=7vTrUPStE6nr0QG3pICIAg&ved=0CE8Q9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jugal Verma}} - 2005  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Contemporary+mathematics+-+American+Mathematical+Society%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=8"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Volume 390 of Contemporary mathematics - American Mathematical Society}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vaserstein
\i0 , LN..; Suslin, A.; Serre's 
\i problem
\i0  on projective modules over polynomial rings, and 
\i algebraic
\i0  A'-theory.
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8mBdvAjk_gQC&pg=PA211&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Mathematical Apocrypha Redux: More Stories and Anecdotes of Mathematicians  - Page 211}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Steven+George+Krantz%22&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CD4Q9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Steven George Krantz}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2005\
One need only imagine the three of them, often fully clothed, laid out side by side. j/Wathematician Leonid 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  
\b ...
\b0  One day there was a seminar being given by a mathematician who had heard nothing of 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  emigration; but the 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jUJAAQAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+pseudo-metric&dq=Wasserstein+pseudo-metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=alLgUIyMKKSt0AGg64H4Cw&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Current trends in potential theory: - Page 60}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 conference proceedings, Bucharest (Romania), September 2002 and 2003
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Dominique Bakry - 2005\
 measurable 
\i pseudometric
\i0 , 
\b ...
\b0  We also mention the deep study [10] of the L2 -
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric on abstract Wiener spaces related to transportation 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0cDvAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=bDLgUKG3I7O30QHPxIGgCA&ved=0CGcQ6AEwCTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Kinetic methods for nonconservative and reacting systems - Page 234}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 G\'eduseppe Toscani - 2005\
 The decay of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric for 7 > 0 We will start the analysis of 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oVCBKOZiAawC&pg=PA171&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CF0Q6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Eigenvalues, inequalities, and ergodic theory - Page 23, 28, 35, 171}} , 215, 220, 221, 222\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Mufa+Chen%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CF4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Mufa Chen}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2005 - 228 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=J2J3-l6i56gC&pg=PR12&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Actuarial theory for dependent risks: measures, orders and models: Volume 10 - Page xii}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michel+Denuit%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michel Denuit}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2005 - 440 pages\
9.6  Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CHgrEYjVuzEC&pg=PA405&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDwQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Elliptic and parabolic problems: a special tribute to the work of  }}
\b\fs28 Haim Brezis{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CHgrEYjVuzEC&pg=PA405&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDwQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul  - Page 405}}\cf2 \ul , 437\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Haim Br\'e9zis, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Catherine+Bandle%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CD0Q9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Catherine Bandle}} - 2005 - 470 pages\
RN) as follows: for any number p > 0 we define the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance dp between two probability measures Mi, ^ by the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=pUQyA-Sjl9kC&pg=PA53&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Probability and partial differential equations in modern applied Mathematics - Page 53}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Edward+C.+Waymire%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CEsQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Edward C. Waymire}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jinqiao+Duan%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CEwQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jinqiao Duan}} - 2005 - 262 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=FNyOJw39xVMC&pg=PA318&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCkQ6AEwATg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Interacting stochastic systems - Page 305, 307, 308, 309,  318}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 321\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Dominique+Deuschel%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CCoQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Jean-Dominique Deuschel}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Andreas+Greven%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CCsQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Andreas Greven}} - 2005 - 450 pages\
The space P(M) will always be equipped with the L\uc0\u952 -
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance. 
\b .
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=POmuf0uJy8kC&pg=PA324&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEMQ6AEwBThG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Seminaire de Probabilites: Volume 38 - Page 320, 322, 324, 333}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22M+Emery%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CEQQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 M Emery}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michel+Ledoux%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CEUQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Michel Ledoux}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marc+Yor%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CEYQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Marc Yor}} - 2005 - 392 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=iK9sPXG7A6EC&pg=PA80&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul An introduction to Stein's method - Page 80}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 110\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.+D.+Barbour%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 A. D. Barbour}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Louis+Hsiao+Yun+Chen%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Louis Hsiao Yun Chen}} - 2005 - 225 pages\
However, no "magic factors" as good as those in Theorem 2.3 are known. If the total variation distance is replaced by the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  ^-metric 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QiBuBO_8IHEC&pg=PA99&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCwQ6AEwATiqAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stein's method and applications: Volume 5 - Page 99}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 133\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.+D.+Barbour%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 A. D. Barbour}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Louis+Hsiao+Yun+Chen%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CC4Q9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Louis Hsiao Yun Chen}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22National+University+of+Singapore.+Institute+for+Mathematical+Sciences%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CC8Q9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul National University of Singapore. Institute for Mathematical Sciences}} - 2005 - 297 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  being of order 0(1) (
\i Arratia
\i0 , Goldstein & Gordon 1989; Barbour, Hoist & Janson 1992, p. 203). With respect to a more natural 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance between point processes, uniform bounds of order 0(X~1cx) for the second differences can 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=c0EZAQAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+Seminaire+de+Probabilites:&dq=Wasserstein+Seminaire+de+Probabilites:&hl=en&sa=X&ei=tuniUPvMJqi_0QH994CwDQ&ved=0CFkQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul S\'e9minaire sur les \'e9quations aux d\'e9riv\'e9es partielles - Page VE-17}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Centre+national+de+la+recherche+scientifique+%28France%29%22&ei=tuniUPvMJqi_0QH994CwDQ&ved=0CFsQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Centre national de la recherche scientifique (France)}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Coll%C3%A8ge+de+France%22&ei=tuniUPvMJqi_0QH994CwDQ&ved=0CFwQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Coll\'e8ge de France}} - 2005\
la fonctionnelle H 
\i de
\i0  Boltzmann : H(fi) = / / log / dvol, o\'f9 f est la densit\'e9 
\i de
\i0  H par rapport au volume ; - la distance 
\i de Wasserstein
\i0  quadratique : W^^i, u) = \\/C^JJi^\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yQXFvQ_E8O8C&pg=PA498&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAjiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Variational analysis and applications: Volume 79 - Page 498}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 511\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22F.+Giannessi%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CDEQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2  Giannessi}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.+Maugeri%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A. Maugeri}} - 2005 - 1184 pages\
Kinderlehrer, D. and Walkington, N. (1999) Approximation of parabolic equations based upon 
\i Wasserstein's
\i0  variational 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ngU_5on5u7cC&pg=PA283&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Applications of stochastic programming - Page 283}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 323\
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Stein+W.+Wallace%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Stein W. Wallace}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22W.+T.+Ziemba%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul W. T. Ziemba}} - 2005 - 709 pages\
Philpott, Henderson, and Teirney [13] discuss an alternative approach based on 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  coupling (see [10]), but this is shown to produce unrealistic weather\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fpLUNkj1T1EC&pg=PA352&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBjjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Applied combinatorics on words: Volume 105 - Page 351, 352}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22M.+Lothaire%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 M. Lothaire}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2005 - 610 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=P82xkbGioL8C&pg=PA254&dq=Vaserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBzgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Ideals and reality: projective modules and number of generators of Ideals  - Page vii, 101,, 102, 103, 109,  254}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 273, 331, 336, 342
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Friedrich+Ischebeck%22&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Friedrich Ischebeck}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ravi+A.+Rao%22&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Ravi A. Rao}} - Springer 2005 - 336 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3540230327, 9783540230328\uc0\u8236 \
4.5 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  Proof of Serre's Conjecture Quillen's proof of Serre's conjecture does not use the fact that projective 
\b ...
\b0  But using this fact and Quillen's ideas, one obtains a remarkably short proof of Serre's conjecture, as L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  wrote 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_2Vkji2d4tIC&pg=PA91&dq=Vaserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFIQ6AEwCDgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Modern Differential Geometry in Gauge Theories: Maxwell fields - Page 91}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Anastasios+Mallios%22&ei=KudhTZu1GtKcgQfZ5LXQAg&ved=0CFMQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Anastasios Mallios}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2005 - 293 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Hk_wNp0sc4gC&pg=PA1&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=sszeUOSgGqjl0QHy0YGgAw&ved=0CFgQ6AEwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Gradient Flows - Page 1}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 V.Bogachev kindly pointed out to us that the correct spelling of the name Wasserstein should be \'93
\i Vasershtein
\i0 \'94 [124] and that the attribution to Kantorovich and Rubinstein is much more correct. We kept the attribution to Wassertein and the\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1090.35002&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Zbl 1090.35002}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:ambrosio.luigi"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Ambrosio, Luigi}}
\b ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:gigli.nicola"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Gigli, Nicola}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:savare.giuseppe"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}}\
Gradient flows in metric spaces and in the space of probability measures.
\b0  (English)\
Lectures in Mathematics, ETH Z\'fcrich. Basel: Birkh\'e4user. vii, 333~p. EUR~34.24 (2005). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*35-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *35-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:49-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 49-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:49J40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 49J40}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:Giuseppe%20Buttazzo"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Giuseppe Buttazzo (Pisa)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone [BOOK] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.127.4089&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Eulerian calculus for the contraction in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.127.4089&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from psu.edu}}
\b0\fs20 F Otto\'85 - 2005 - Citeseer\
Abstract. We consider the porous medium equation on a compact Riemannian manifold and \
give a new proof of the contraction of its semigroup in the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance. This proof is \
based on the insight that the porous medium equation does not increase the size of 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=FAPyAAAAMAAJ&q=Waserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Waserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CEEQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Methods and applications of analysis - Volume 12 - Page 203}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Project+Euclid%22&sa=X&ei=5lvdUMH-OKa50QGi24DYCA&ved=0CEMQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Project Euclid}}
\b0\fs24  - 2005 \
This sequence converges weakly, because our distance functional is stronger than the Kantorovich-
\i Waserstein
\i0  metric which induces the topology of weak convergence on spaces of measures. Therefore, fi\'84 \'97 UNIQUENESS FOR THE 
\b ...
\fs20 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 2006 32 books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YP8Mcxv2XfwC&pg=PA75&dq=Wasserstein+norm+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Js3xUOaVL_G90QGDioCoAg&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Tutorials in Operations Research: Models, Methods, and }}
\f1 \uc0\u8234 Applications for Innovative Decision Making\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YP8Mcxv2XfwC&pg=PA75&dq=Wasserstein+norm+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Js3xUOaVL_G90QGDioCoAg&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf8 \ul \ulc8  - Page 75}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22I+N+F+O+R+M+S:+Institute+for+Operations+Research+%26+the+Management+Sciences%22&ei=Js3xUOaVL_G90QGDioCoAg&ved=0CGIQ9AgwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 I N F O R M S: Institute for Operations Research & the Management Sciences}}
\b0\fs24 , Michael P. Johnson, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bryan+Norman%22&ei=Js3xUOaVL_G90QGDioCoAg&ved=0CGMQ9AgwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Bryan Norman}} - 2006 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YP8Mcxv2XfwC&pg=PA75&dq=Wasserstein+norm+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Js3xUOaVL_G90QGDioCoAg&ved=0CGQQuwUwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Preview}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  for Innovative Decision Making I N F O R M S: Institute for Operations Research & the Management Sciences, Bryan 
\i Norman
\i0  Michael P. Johnson 
\b ...
\b0  
\i Wasserstein
\i0  (Kantorovich) Metric Suppose Q is a metric space with metric d. dw(P,P) = sup< 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN1877640204, 9781877640209
\b\fs30 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Encyclopedia of Actuarial Science
\fs36 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Hermann Thorisson
\i\b\fs28 \cf4  
\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 Published Online: 15 SEP 2006 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=5&ved=0CFQQFjAE&url=http%3A%2F%2Fonlinelibrary.wiley.com%2Fdoi%2F10.1002%2F9780470012505.tac062%2Fpdf&ei=TnLpUI_LOojN0AHf8ICgCw&usg=AFQjCNFlHqT6oEU5f5usMSsM-G2k8G-WgA&sig2=-TFysPt9So0LIYikEzVtjw&bvm=bv.1355534169,d.dmQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b\fs28 \cf4 Coupling
\i0 \ul  - Wiley Online Library}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://link.springer.com/book/10.1007/978-3-7908-1709-6/page/1"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs26 \cf0 Compstat 2006 - Proceedings in Computational Statistics}}
\f1\b\fs26 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 17th Symposium Held in Rome, Italy, 2006   Alfredo Rizzi, Maurizio Vichi   ISBN: 978-3-7908-1708-9\
Chapter Dynamic clustering of histograms using Wasserstein metric IRPINO A, VERDE R, LECHEVALLIER Y
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=i6RNlpWmdDoC&pg=PA156&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=CV3oUOm-E9DO0QG5yYF4&ved=0CFgQ6AEwBziCAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Dependence in Probability and 
\i \ulnone Statistics
\i0 \ul  - Page 156}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Patrice+Bertail%22&ei=CV3oUOm-E9DO0QG5yYF4&ved=0CFoQ9AgwBziCAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Patrice Bertail}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Paul+Doukhan%22&ei=CV3oUOm-E9DO0QG5yYF4&ved=0CFsQ9AgwBziCAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Paul Doukhan}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Philippe+Soulier%22&ei=CV3oUOm-E9DO0QG5yYF4&ved=0CFwQ9AgwBziCAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Philippe Soulier}} - 2006 \
Academic Press, Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Publishers, New York, 1980. Probability and Mathematical 
\i Statistics
\i0 . 
\b ...
\b0  \
The 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance and approximation theorems. Zeitschrift f\'fcr Wahrscheinligkeits Theorie und Verwandte Gebiete, 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=zcFZrhYvVagC&pg=PA866&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4UvoUMiVFO2G0QGOuoGoAQ&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBDgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Advances in Database Technology -- EDBT 2006:  - Page 866}}
\f1\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 10 International Conference on Extending Database Technology, Munich, Germany, 26-31 March 2006, Proceedings\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 Yannis Ioannidis, Marc H. Scholl, Joachim W. Schmidt - 2006  \uc0\u8234 ISBN3540329609, 9783540329602\uc0\u8236 \
Earlier works (e.g., [6,7]) call it the match distance, and 
\i statistics
\i0  literature uses Mallows or 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=zLHvAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+Seminaire+de+Probabilites:&dq=Wasserstein+Seminaire+de+Probabilites:&hl=en&sa=X&ei=tuniUPvMJqi_0QH994CwDQ&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Quantum probability - Page 206}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Marek Bo\uc0\u380 ejko, Wojciech M\u322 otkowski, Janusz Wysocza\u324 ski - 2006\
References [1] D. Bakry and M. Emery, Diffusion hypercontractives , in: 
\i Seminaire de Probabilites
\i0  XIX, Lecture Notes in 
\b ...
\b0  [3] Ph. Biane and D. Voiculescu, A free probabilistic analogue of the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric on the trace-state space, Geom.
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vNMtjoPkBS0C&pg=PA192&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CGUQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Lifting Modules: Supplements and Projectivity in Module Theory - Page 192}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Clark%22&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CGcQ9AgwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 John Clark}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2006 \
Some of the basic properties of stable range 1 appear first in [35], in 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  [350], [351], and in notes by Kaplansky [187]. \
The proof of the symmetry of the condition in 15.4 is taken from Goodearl's [129] and, as he says, is adapted from 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5-5OQs48uDEC&pg=PA137&dq=vaserstein%27s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Serre's Problem on Projective Modules - Page 137}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul . 391\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22T.Y.+Lam%22&ei=NErgUOWuBbSP0QHyvIC4DA&ved=0CDgQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul T.Y. Lam}}
\b0\fs24  - 2006\
Our exposition of 
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  elementary proof follows the lecture notes of Ferrand's Bourbaki talk [Ferrand: 1976]. 
\b ...
\b0  In the literature, this proof of Serre's Conjecture has sometimes been fondly referred to as "
\i Vaserstein's
\i0  8-line proof" (see, 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=c2r1HKMgY9MC&pg=PA291&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IkDgUJ7_K9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CDkQ6AEwATh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Topics on Concentration Phenomena and Problems with Multiple Scales - Page 291}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Andrea+Braides%22&ei=IkDgUJ7_K9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CDsQ9AgwATh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Andrea Braides}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Valeria Chiad\'da Piat - 2006 \
Ambrosio, L.; Gigli, N.; Savar`e, G. Gradient flows in metric spaces and in the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  spaces of probability measures, Birkha\'fcser, 2005. 2. 
\b ...
\b0  X. Generation and propagation of interfaces for reaction-
\i diffusion
\i0  equations, J. Diff. Eq. 96 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aDlcYRmV-bgC&pg=PA361&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NjzgUI7VDPCo0AG9woHoBQ&ved=0CGMQ6AEwCThk"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Analysis, Modeling and Simulation of Multiscale Problems - Page 361}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alexander+Mielke%22&ei=NjzgUI7VDPCo0AG9woHoBQ&ved=0CGUQ9AgwCThk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Alexander Mielke}}
\b0\fs24  - 2006 \
Semiconductor simulations using a coupled quantum drift-
\i diffusion
\i0  Schr\'f6dinger-Poisson model. SIAM J. Appl. Math. 
\b ...
\b0  A fourth-order nonlinear PDE as gradient flow of the Fisher information in 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  spaces. In preparation, 2006.
\i\b\fs28 \cf4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MScZAQAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=RjXgUKafMcrL0QG7yYCQCw&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAjgy"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Diffusion
\i0 \ul , quantum theory, and radically elementary mathematics - Page 243}}
\i0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22William+G.+Faris%22&ei=RjXgUKafMcrL0QG7yYCQCw&ved=0CEIQ9AgwAjgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul William G. Faris}}
\b0\fs24  - 2006\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  28 optimal, 141-154 Trotter product formula, 76, 85 twelve-tone row, 215 ultracontractive, 59 variance, 36 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance, 144 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space, 149 wave function, 6, 1 1 8 Wick power, 20, 26, 39, 82 Wick product, 39 Wiener bridge, 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jZPxAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+diffusion&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=jDDgUIjWC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CFsQ6AEwBzge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 DCDS-B - Volume 6, Pages 1-649 - Page 311}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22American+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences%22&ei=jDDgUIjWC9SI0QGt34GQDw&ved=0CF0Q9AgwBzge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 American Institute of Mathematical Sciences}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2006\
Weak topology implicit schemes based on Monge-Kantorovich or 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics have become prominent for their ability to solve a variety of 
\i diffusion
\i0  and 
\i diffusion
\i0 -like equations. They are very flexible, encompassing a wide range of 
\b ...
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=DDa5FeoQRwAC&pg=PA292&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KC3gUIGSKcjL0AGz9IHgDw&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Functional Inequalities Markov Semigroups and Spectral Theory - Page 292}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Fengyu+Wang%22&ei=KC3gUIGSKcjL0AGz9IHgDw&ved=0CFgQ9AgwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Fengyu Wang}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2006\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  inf dn, 1( ) 7r\'80(\'80(/H/) EXEP which is well-known in probability theory as the L1-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance between /.7 and 1/. 
\b ...
\b0  In the smooth case the Dirichlet form of the 
\i diffusion
\i0  process generated by div(AV) + AVV, which is symmetric in L2(p),
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vP4zdnGGmWcC&pg=PA136&dq=vaserstein+sehgal&hl=en&sa=X&ei=YwPgUIrSO5Og0gGh3IDgDA&ved=0CEgQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Groups, Rings And Group Rings - Page 136}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Antonio+Giambruno%22&ei=YwPgUIrSO5Og0gGh3IDgDA&ved=0CEoQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 ntonio Giambruno}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22C%C3%A9sar+Polcino+Milies%22&ei=YwPgUIrSO5Og0gGh3IDgDA&ved=0CEsQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul C\'e9sar Polcino Milies}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sudarshan+K.+Sehgal%22&ei=YwPgUIrSO5Og0gGh3IDgDA&ved=0CEwQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Sudarshan K. Sehgal}} - 2006 -
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , The structure of classic arithmetic groups of rank greater than One, Math. USSR Sbornik 20 (1973),
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NPfxAAAAMAAJ&q=vaserstein+coupling&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=vL1hTeLhCYOcgQfWqZH5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDkQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Markov processes and related fields: Volume 12}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Polymat\uc0\u8236 , 2006
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Handbooks in Operations Research And Management Science:
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VF5nXLvi_KUC&pg=PA85&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CE8Q6AEwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Simulation - Page 85}}
\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Shane+G.+Henderson%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CFAQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Shane G. Henderson}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Barry+L.+Nelson%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CFEQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Barry L. Nelson}} - 2006 - 678 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=2gpwXoL0mkoC&pg=PA13&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Handbook of differential equations: Evolutionary equations - Page 13}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 30, 134\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf2 C{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Constantine+M.+Dafermos%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt onstantine M. Dafermos}}\cf0 \ulnone , Eduard Feireisl - 2006 - 652 pages\
J.A. Carrillo, R.J. McCann and C. Villani, Contractions in the 2-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and thermalization of granular media, Arch. Ration. Mech. Anal. (2006).\
In this way we recover in a more general framework the Riemannian interpretation of the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance developed by Otto in [74] (see also [57,73]) and used to study the long time behavior of the porous medium 
\i equation
\i0 . In the original 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MhpfDL3sejgC&pg=PA17&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Recent trends in partial differential equations:  - Page  vii, 1,2, 11, 16,  17}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 18, 19, 21, 23, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 UIMP-RSME Santal\'f3 Summer School, July 12-16, 2004 Universidad Internacional Men\'e9ndez Pelayo, Santander, Spain
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Juan+Luis+V%C3%A1zquez%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Juan Luis V\'e1zquez}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Xavier+Cabr%C3%A9%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Xavier Cabr\'e9}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jos%C3%A9+Antonio+Carrillo%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CCkQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jos\'e9 Antonio Carrillo}} - 2006  
\f0 123 pages  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Contemporary+mathematics+-+American+Mathematical+Society%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=8"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Volume 409 of Contemporary mathematics - American Mathematical Society}}
\f1\i \cf4  
\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821838911, 9780821838914
\f0 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 The 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance arises as a powerful tool to analyze the asymptotic behaviour of solutions of PDE's of 
\i diffusion
\i0  type, to obtain new general proofs of geometric and functional inequalities and to characterize solutions of shape 
\b ...\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=uzLpO_e_K4kC&pg=PA14&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CD0Q6AEwBTge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Nonsmooth mechanics and analysis: theoretical and numerical advances - Page 14}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 16, 18, 19, 20, 320\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22P.+Alart%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2  Alart}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22O.+Maisonneuve%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CD8Q9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul O. Maisonneuve}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22R.+Tyrrell+Rockafellar%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul R. Tyrrell Rockafellar}} - 2006 - 320 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vtSAZLYg6iEC&pg=PA103&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDwQ6AEwBDgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul A mathematical theory of large-scale atmosphere/ocean flow - Page 103}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michael+J.+P.+Cullen%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CD0Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michael J. P. Cullen}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Imperial College Press, 2006\uc0\u8236  - 259 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN186094518X, 9781860945182\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=T52rYGFlsSwC&pg=PA238&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBzhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Time series and related topics: in memory of Ching-Zong Wei - Page 238}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ching-Zong+Wei%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Ching-Zong Wei}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Hwai-Chung+Ho%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Hwai-Chung Ho}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ching-Kang+Ing%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CE8Q9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Ching-Kang Ing}} - 2006 - 294 pages\
To measure the error of approximation, we use 
\i Wasserstein pseudo-
\i0 metric which has the advantage of allowing us to lift the carrier space to a bigger carrier space. Of course, other metrics such as the total variation distance can also be 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=I-PQH8gcOjUC&pg=PA188&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=adJhTYO6EcnZgAeIrej4AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDMQ6AEwBDhk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Dictionary of distances - Page 98, 188}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=100&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22M.+Deza%22&ei=adJhTYO6EcnZgAeIrej4AQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 M. Deza}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=100&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Elena+Deza%22&ei=adJhTYO6EcnZgAeIrej4AQ&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Elena Deza}}, - 2006 - 391 pages\
he state 
\i space
\i0  of any unital C *-algebra) of the Kantorovich\'97 Mallows\'97Monge\'97
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric defined as the Lipschitz 
\b ...
\b0  Let the commutator [D, f] for f G A be the Clifford multiplication by the 
\i gradient
\i0  V f so that its operator norm ||.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=koSPw0REMjgC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=x9RhTZP4DYTAgQe4paDMAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDYQ6AEwBDiCAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Variational problems in materials science}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - 2 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=130&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Gianni+Dal+Maso%22&ei=x9RhTZP4DYTAgQe4paDMAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4ggE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Gianni Dal Maso}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=130&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Antonio+DeSimone%22&ei=x9RhTZP4DYTAgQe4paDMAg&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4ggE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Antonio DeSimone}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=130&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Franco+Tomarelli%22&ei=x9RhTZP4DYTAgQe4paDMAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4ggE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Franco Tomarelli}} - 2006 - 159 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  path functionals over 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  spaces, variational approaches to quasi-\
\'85 systems Giuseppe Buttazzo (Universit`adiPisa) Path functionals over \

\b Wasserstein
\b0  spaces Antonin Chambolle\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=K0tjtgGXiY0C&pg=PP10&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD0Q6AEwBDiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Data science and classification}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page  , 183, 189, 191, 355
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22International+Federation+of+Classification+Societies.+Conference%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul International Federation of Classification Societies. Conference}}, Vladimir Batagelj - Springer 2006 - 358 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3540344160, 9783540344162\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein based\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kO9nNrrT1MoC&pg=PR16&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBjiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul COMPSTAT: proceedings in computational statistics :  - Page xvi}}\cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 17th Symposium Held in Rome, Italy, 2006\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone lfredo Rizzi, Maurizio Vichi - 2006 - 537 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-4RCjdyMsI0C&pg=PA61&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFUQ6AEwCDi0AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Lectures on the Ricci flow - Page 61}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Peter+Topping%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CFYQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Peter Topping}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2006 - 113 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=psbGIGAch9wC&pg=PA116&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFMQ6AEwCDjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic partial differential equations and applications--VII - Page 116}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Giuseppe+Da+Prato%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CFQQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Giuseppe Da Prato}}, Luciano Tubaro - 2006 - 347 pages\
In Section 12.5, the results from previous sections are applied to stochastic reaction- 
\i diffusion
\i0  equations. 
\b ...
\b0  norm intermediate between the total variation metric and 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric has been obtained for stochastic Navier\'96Stokes equation.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=2gpwXoL0mkoC&pg=PA30&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=wX6dTsrnJ4T50gHl08SXCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Handbook of differential equations: evolutionary equations - Page v, 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 13, 14, 29, 30}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul , 38, 40, 45, 46, 52, 55, 58, 80, 81, 104, 105, 106, 107, 109, 113, 115, 116, 117, 120, 122, 123, 131, 134, 135, 136, 634, 638\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2006,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2006&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Constantine+M.+Dafermos%22&ei=wX6dTsrnJ4T50gHl08SXCQ&ved=0CDwQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Constantine M. Dafermos}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Eduard Feireisl - \uc0\u8234 Elsevier, 2006\uc0\u8236  - 652 pages  \uc0\u8234 ISBN0444528482, 9780444528483\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NbPxAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=Qn-dTtPdM6Lo0QGZieWSCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC8Q6AEwADgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Journal de math\'e9matiques pures et appliqu\'e9es}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2006,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2006&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joseph+Liouville%22&ei=Qn-dTtPdM6Lo0QGZieWSCQ&ved=0CDAQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Joseph Liouville}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2006,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2006&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joseph+Liouville%22&q=inauthor:%22Henri+Am%C3%A9+R%C3%A9sal%22&ei=Qn-dTtPdM6Lo0QGZieWSCQ&ved=0CDEQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Henri Am\'e9 R\'e9sal}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2006,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2006&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joseph+Liouville%22&q=inauthor:%22Henri+Am%C3%A9+R%C3%A9sal%22&q=inauthor:%22Camille+Jordan%22&ei=Qn-dTtPdM6Lo0QGZieWSCQ&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Camille Jordan}} - \uc0\u8234 Gauthier-Villars\uc0\u8236 , 2006\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jZPxAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=Qn-dTtPdM6Lo0QGZieWSCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAjgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul DCDS-B: Volume 6, Pages 1-649}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul    - Page 311, 313, 325\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2006,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2006&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22American+Institute+of+Mathematical+Sciences%22&ei=Qn-dTtPdM6Lo0QGZieWSCQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 American Institute of Mathematical Sciences}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2006 \
Wasserstein metric, Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 44th
\i0  Annual Allerton 
\i Conference on Communication
\i0 , 
\i Control
\i0 , and Computing 2006\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xflSAAAAMAAJ&q=wasserstein&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=oH-dTv6tEdS00QH06sG0CQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC8Q6AEwADgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Proceedings: Volume 44, Part 2}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  - Page 913, 915, 917\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2006,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2006&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22University+of+Illinois+at+Urbana-Champaign.+Dept.+of+Electrical+Engineering%22&q=inauthor:%22University+of+Illinois+at+Urbana-Champaign.+Coordinated+Science+Laboratory%22&ei=oH-dTv6tEdS00QH06sG0CQ&ved=0CDEQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Coordinated Science Laboratory}}
\b0\fs24  - 2006\
Wasserstein coupling\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://calvino.polito.it/~mmkt/ed2006/geninf2006.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf0 3rd SUMMER SCHOOL ON ''METHODS AND MODELS OF KINETIC THEORY'' (M&MKT 2006)}}\
Porto Ercole (Grosseto, Italy) June 4-10, 2006  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b\fs30 \cf0 Large time asymptotics for nonlinear diffusion and kinetic equations
\b0\fs24        
\b\fs28 Jos\'e9 A. Carrillo
\b0\fs24 \
The main goal of this course is to give an overview of the recent ideas of contractivity of Wasserstein and Fourier-type distances applied to the asymptotic behavior of nonlinear diffusion, scalar conservation laws and granular flow models based on kinetic equations with inelastic interactions.
\f4 \uc0\u8232 
\f1 Program:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Basics of the Wasserstein distance & Model equations: nonlinear diffusions and homogeneous inelastic kinetic equations; description of models and main formal properties of their solutions; contractivity for 1-D models: consequences on qualitative properties of the solutions.\
{\listtext	2.	}Gradient flows for the euclidean Wasserstein distance: asymptotic behavior for nonlinear diffusions and simplified homogeneous inelastic kinetic models; formal ideas behind gradient flows; contractivity in several dimensions; quantified displacement convexity and decay rates; entropy method versus mass transportation method for large time asymptotics.\
{\listtext	3.	}Large time asymptotics for general nonlinear diffusion equations and scalar conservation laws: asymptotic profiles and identification of universal behavior; applications to the large time asymptotics of scalar conservation laws with integrable bounded positive initial data and decay rates towards N-waves.\
{\listtext	4.	}Contractivity for the inelastic Boltzmann equation: Wassertein and Fourier-based metrics: conditions for being "equivalent"; contractivity of Wasserstein and Fourier-based distances for the inelastic homogeneous Boltzmann operator in the maxwellian approximation; existence, uniqueness, nonlinear asymptotic stability and decay rates for diffusive equilibria and homogeneous cooling states.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\fs24 \cf0 200  20 boojs
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8JZRXHrv1HIC&pg=PA698&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=0VHoUPX_Nsav0AH1pYGADw&ved=0CGMQ6AEwCDhu"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Scale Space and Variational Methods in Computer Vision:  - Page xiii, 698}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 705
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 First International Conference, SSVM 2007, Ischia, Italy, May 30 - June 2, 2007 : Proceedings\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Fiorella+Sgallari%22&ei=0VHoUPX_Nsav0AH1pYGADw&ved=0CGUQ9AgwCDhu"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Fiorella Sgallari}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22A+Murli%22&ei=0VHoUPX_Nsav0AH1pYGADw&ved=0CGYQ9AgwCDhu"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul A Murli}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nikos+Paragios%22&ei=0VHoUPX_Nsav0AH1pYGADw&ved=0CGcQ9AgwCDhu"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Nikos Paragios}} - \uc0\u8234 ISBN3540728236, 9783540728238\uc0\u8236  931 pp \
To overcome this issue, we propose to use the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance (Monge-Kantorovich distance) to compare 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=SU7xX2pJ1HgC&pg=PA105&lpg=PA105&dq=An+Approach+Via+Module+Theory+vaserstein&source=bl&ots=feFMQgR0bx&sig=B-NTqmSKO78fy66UAqKO4TVmWzc&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PwjjUI3mJIu70AGQwYHYDg&ved=0CF0Q6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Gr\'f6bner Bases in Control 
\i \ulnone Theory
\i0 \ul  and Signal Processing - Page 105}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  and A. A. Suslin, Serre's Problem on projective 
\i modules over
\i0  polynomial rings and algebraic if-
\i theory
\i0 , Math. USSR Izviestija 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nXSReWTGUVgC&pg=PA82&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=lz3gUP3cI8vv0QG044GoDA&ved=0CEUQ6AEwAzhu"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Combinatorics and Probability - Page 82}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Graham Brightwell, Imre Leader, Alex Scott - 2007\
References [1] Arratia, R. (1996) Independence of prime factors: total variation and 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics, insertions and deletions, and the 
\b ...
\b0  51 800\'96832. [14]
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xmv-4XIKrekC&pg=PA36&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Asymptotic methods in nonlinear wave phenomena:  - Page 36}} 
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 In Honor of the 65th Birthday of Antonio Greco, Palermo, Italy, 5-7 June 2006
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Tommaso Ruggeri, Marco Sammartino - 2007 - 216 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gCE3krG6zjQC&pg=PA44&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEAQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Lectures on empirical processes: theory and statistical applications - Page 44}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 68\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Eustasio+Del+Barrio%22&sa=X&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&ved=0CEEQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Eustasio Del Barrio}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Paul+Deheuvels%22&sa=X&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&ved=0CEIQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Paul Deheuvels}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Sara+A.+Geer%22&sa=X&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&ved=0CEMQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Sara A. Geer}} - 2007 - 254 pages\
5. Tests based on 
\f0 Wasserstein distance
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=t4W4hMnlOYcC&pg=PA71&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFUQ6AEwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Amplitude equations for stochastic partial differential equations - Page 71}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Dirk+Bl%C3%B6mker%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CFYQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Dirk Bl\'f6mker}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 World Scientific, 2007\uc0\u8236  - 126 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN9812706372, 9789812706379\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=DQXhYAgXRpEC&pg=PA134&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFMQ6AEwCTge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Selected contributions in data analysis and classification - Page 134}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22E.+Diday%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul E. Diday}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Paula+Brito%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CFUQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Paula Brito}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Patrice+Bertrand%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CFYQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Patrice Bertrand}} - 2007 - 634 pages
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9FnvAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBTgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Surveys in differential geometry: metric and comparison geometry}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 233, 237, 240\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jeff+Cheeger%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Jeff Cheeger}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Karsten+Grove%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Karsten Grove}} - 2007 - 347 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein distance
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=4E2Gc67b-dYC&pg=PA251&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBzhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul The porous medium equation: mathematical theory - Page 2}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul 50, 251
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Juan+Luis+V%C3%A1zquez%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CFAQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Juan Luis V\'e1zquez}} - 2007 - 624 pages\
The idea proposed by F. Otto [413] sees the HE, the PME and other nonlinear 
\i diffusion
\i0  equations as gradient flows in a space of measures endowed with a convenient metric given by the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance, a tool developed in probability 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=IefuAAAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBzhu"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Proceedings of the International Congress of Mathematicians:: Volume 2}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  - Page 618, 623\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Madrid, August 22-30, 2006\uc0\u8236 , Volume 1
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=110&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marta+Sanz+Sol%C3%A9%22&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&ved=0CEUQ9Ag4bg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Marta Sanz Sol\'e9}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2007 - 4500 pages \uc0\u8234 Amer Mathematical Society\uc0\u8236 \
If we replace the exponent 2 by p e [1 , oo] in the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  formula (13), we get the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  non-quadratic distances. 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NTsTtapOrj8C&pg=PA288&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAjiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Control methods in PDE-dynamical systems - Page 288}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 292\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Fabio+Ancona%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Fabio Ancona}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2007 - 404 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein-metric-based, Wasserstein distance
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=P1YK_NW6C38C&pg=PA6&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCwQ6AEwATigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Meshfree methods for partial differential equations III - Page 6}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michael+Griebel%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michael Griebel}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marc+Alexander+Schweitzer%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CC4Q9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Marc Alexander Schweitzer}} - 2007 - 306 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein distance
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rXXk06jR4WYC&pg=PA114&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAji0AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Modeling, estimation and control - Page 114}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Festschrift in Honor of Giorgio Picci on the Occasion of His Sixty-Fifth Birthday
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Alessandro+Chiuso%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Alessandro Chiuso}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Augusto+Ferrante%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Augusto Ferrante}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Stefano+Pinzoni%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Stefano Pinzoni}} - 2007 - 355 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nXSReWTGUVgC&pg=PA56&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEIQ6AEwBTjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Combinatorics and probability - Page 56}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 82\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.lib.muohio.edu/multifacet/record/mu3ugb3558866"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone celebrating B\'e9la Bollab\'e1s's 60th birthday}}
\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 Papers presented at the conference "Combinatorics in Cambridge," held in Cambridge, Aug. 4th-7th, 2003
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \'a0edited by Graham Brightwell, Imre Leader, Alex Scott, Andrew Thomason - \uc0\u8234  Cambridge University Press, 2007\uc0\u8236  - 633 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0521872073, 9780521872072\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein distance, Wasserstein metrics
\f1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6BaidsPD4r8C&pg=PA39&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFgQ6AEwCTjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Dynamics in models of coarsening, coagulation, condensation and quantization  - Page 39}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Weizhu+Bao%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Weizhu Bao}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jian-Guo+Liu%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CFoQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jian-Guo Liu}} - 2007 - 294 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VQZadaxwnIwC&pg=PA35&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBjjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Transport phenomena and kinetic theory - Page 35}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Applications to Gases, Semiconductors, Photons, and Biological Systems\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Carlo+Cercignani%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CEkQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Carlo Cercignani}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ester+Gabetta%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CEoQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Ester Gabetta}} - 2007 - 271 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=A7aIuzMCmtoC&pg=PA482&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=MeVhTfm0B8nZgAeIrej4AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAzjmAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Perspectives in nonlinear partial differential equations: in honor \cf0 \ulnone Ha\'efm\cf2 \ul  - Page 482 }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=230&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Henri+Berestycki%22&ei=MeVhTfm0B8nZgAeIrej4AQ&ved=0CDYQ9Ag45gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Henri Berestycki}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2007 - 495 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 .
\b0  L. Ambrosio, N. Gigli, G. Savare, Gradient Flows in Metric Spaces and in the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Spaces of Probability Measures, Birkhaiiser, (2005). 
\b .
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=f6YSAQAAMAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=MeVhTfm0B8nZgAeIrej4AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDoQ6AEwBDjmAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jahresbericht: Volume 109}}\cf2 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=230&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Deutsche+Mathematiker-Vereinigung%22&ei=MeVhTfm0B8nZgAeIrej4AQ&ved=0CDsQ9Ag45gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Deutsche Mathematiker-Vereinigung}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2007\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22August+Gutzmer%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 August Gutzmer}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ernest+W%C3%B6lffing%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Ernest W\'f6lffing}} \uc0\u8234 Georg Reimer\uc0\u8236 , 2007\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2279160"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2279160
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2007j:15001)}} Handbook of linear algebra. Edited by Leslie Hogben. Associate editors: Richard Brualdi, Anne Greenbaum and Roy Mathias.\
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Discrete_Mathematics_and_its_Applications_Boca_Raton"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Discrete Mathematics and its Applications (Boca Raton).}} 
\i Chapman & Hall/CRC, Boca Raton, FL,
\i0  2007. xxx+1370 pp. \
ISBN: 978-1-58488-510-8; 1-58488-510-6, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=15-00,%2800A20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 15-00 (00A20)}}\cf5 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CoSIe7h5mTsC&pg=PA541&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADhk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Measure theory: Volume 1 - Page 54}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 1, 559\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+Igorevich+Bogachev%22&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Vladimir Igorevich Bogachev}}
\b0\fs24  - 2007 - 575 pages\
52, 455] [1919] 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  L.N. Markov processes over denumerable products of spaces describing large system of automata. Probl. Pereda\uc0\u711 ci Inform. 1969.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\f0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 2008  26 books
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f1\b\fs36 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wV01-1T0JygC&pg=PA8&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=T1boUJiGOMiy0AG-5oHYCg&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAjh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Variational PDE-based image segmentation and inpainting with}}
\b0\fs24 \uc0\u8234  Applications in Computer Graphics\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wV01-1T0JygC&pg=PA8&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=T1boUJiGOMiy0AG-5oHYCg&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAjh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul  - Page 8}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 35\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&noj=1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kang-Yu+Ni%22&ei=T1boUJiGOMiy0AG-5oHYCg&ved=0CEEQ9AgwAjh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Kang-Yu Ni}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&noj=1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22University+of+California,+Los+Angeles%22&ei=T1boUJiGOMiy0AG-5oHYCg&ved=0CEIQ9AgwAjh4"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul University of California, Los Angeles}} - \uc0\u8234 ProQuest, 2008\uc0\u8236   120 pp \uc0\u8234 ISBN0549980636, 9780549980636\uc0\u8236  \
The optimal transport distance, commonly called the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance with exponent p, is Wp(p, v) = Tp(n, v)1/p. 
\b ...
\b0  The goal of this work is to understand low-order feature segmentation, which is based on the 
\i statistics
\i0  of image intensity 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs36 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8Cf16JkKz30C&pg=PA88&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8EHoUObwE6rD0AHM24HYBw&ved=0CGIQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Compstat: Proceedings in Computational 
\i \ulnone Statistics
\i0 \ul  2008 - Page 88}}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Paula+Brito%22&sa=X&ei=8EHoUObwE6rD0AHM24HYBw&ved=0CGQQ9AgwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Paula Brito}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2008 \
Proceedings in Computational 
\i Statistics
\i0  2008 Paula Brito. of histogram data. The Mahalanobis\'96
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance and the proposed interdependency measures between histogram variables can be considered as new useful tools for 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs26 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ssjVtgAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein+space+OR+pseudo+OR+gradient&hl=en&sa=X&ei=S_DiUMn0DYa50QH68YFY&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\fs28 \cf4 Wasserstein Space
\i0 \ul  Over the Wiener 
\i \ulnone Space}}
\i\fs28 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Shizan+Fang%22&ei=S_DiUMn0DYa50QH68YFY&ved=0CEEQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\i0\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Shizan Fang}}
\i0\b0\fs24 \cf0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jinghai+Shao%22&ei=S_DiUMn0DYa50QH68YFY&ved=0CEIQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jinghai Shao}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Karl-Theodor+Sturm%22&ei=S_DiUMn0DYa50QH68YFY&ved=0CEMQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Karl-Theodor Sturm}} - 2008 
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs26 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kgz9nAdEPC4C&pg=PA370&dq=Wasserstein+Seminaire+de+Probabilites:&hl=en&sa=X&ei=tuniUPvMJqi_0QH994CwDQ&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul S\'e9minaire 
\i \ulnone de
\i0 \ul  Probabilit\'e9s XLI - Page 131, 370}}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Catherine Donati-Martin, Michel \'c9mery, Alain Rouault - 2008\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein
\i0 . distance. F. Bolley Ecole Normale Sup\uc0\u32 \u769 erieure 
\i de
\i0  Lyon, 
\b\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720
\cf4 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jaS6kkSBSw0C&pg=PA51&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PjrgUOjFIeq20AGL6ID4CQ&ved=0CDQQ6AEwADha"}}{\fldrslt \ul A Level-set Method for Solving Elliptic Eigenvalue Problems on }}\cf0 \uc0\u8234  Hypersurfaces, And, Finite-time Blow-up of L(infinity) Weak Solutions of an Aggregation Equation\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jaS6kkSBSw0C&pg=PA51&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PjrgUOjFIeq20AGL6ID4CQ&ved=0CDQQ6AEwADha"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul  - Page 51}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jeremy+Brandman%22&ei=PjrgUOjFIeq20AGL6ID4CQ&ved=0CDYQ9AgwADha"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jeremy Brandman}} - 2008 \
Global-in-time solutions of (2.1), with the addition of a density-dependent 
\i diffusion
\i0  used to model repulsion, were studied 
\b ...
\b0  \
by viewing solutions as gradient flows in the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric and long-time behavior of solutions was also studied.
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=d-BxHPMIIscC&pg=PA89&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=ArphTY7ZCI_rgQe2rMiiAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Scaling limits in statistical mechanics and microstructures in }}\cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Continuum Mechanics
\fs48 \uc0\u8236  -
\b0\fs24  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=d-BxHPMIIscC&pg=PA89&dq=vaserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=ArphTY7ZCI_rgQe2rMiiAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Page 86, 89}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Errico+Presutti%22&sa=X&ei=ArphTY7ZCI_rgQe2rMiiAg&ved=0CDEQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Errico Presutti}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2008 - 467 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vaserstein
\i0 . distance. The theory is much more general than the applications to statistical mechanics that we discuss in this book, as a general reference see the book by Villani [208]. This is Part I because our presentation continues in Sect.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tcm3y5UJxDsC&pg=PA384&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFgQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Probability theory: a comprehensive course - Page 384}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Achim+Klenke%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CFkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Achim Klenke}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2008 - 616 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hceceQJlqm8C&pg=PA129&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CD0Q6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Recent advances in learning and control - Page 129}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
V{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Vincent+Blondel%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 incent Blondel}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Stephen P. Boyd, Hidenori Kimura - 2008 - 277 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TOFU_UQeJF4C&pg=PA52&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEEQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mathematical Analysis of Urban Spatial Networks - Page 52}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 53, 180\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Philippe+Blanchard%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CEIQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Philippe Blanchard}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Dimitri+Volchenkov%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CEMQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Dimitri Volchenkov}} - 2008 - 181 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rCDK9JA5BAEC&pg=PA151&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFYQ6AEwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Gradient flows: in metric spaces and in the space of probability measures - Page 9, 151}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 168, 324\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Luigi+Ambrosio%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CFcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Luigi Ambrosio}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Nicola+Gigli%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CFgQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Nicola Gigli}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Giuseppe+Savar%C3%A9%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Giuseppe Savar\'e9}} - 2008 - 334 pages -\
E. A. Carlen and W. Gangbo, Constrained steepest descent in the 2- 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric, Ann. of Math. 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1145.35001&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 1145.35001}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:ambrosio.luigi"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Ambrosio, Luigi}}
\b ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:gigli.nicola"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Gigli, Nicola}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:savare.giuseppe"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}}\
Gradient flows in metric spaces and in the space of probability measures. 2nd ed.
\b0  (English)\
Lectures in Mathematics, ETH Z\'fcrich. Basel: Birkh\'e4user. vii, 334~p.   (2008). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*35-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *35-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:49-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 49-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:49J40"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 49J40}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8Cf16JkKz30C&pg=PA86&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CC0Q6AEwATgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Proceedings in computational statistics:  - Page 86}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 18th Symposium Held in Porto, Portugal, 2008\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Paula Brito, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22COMPSTAT+18,+2008,+Porto%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CC4Q9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul COMPSTAT 18, 2008, Porto}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=20&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22International+Association+for+Statistical+Computing%22&ei=qcZhTYmqHJPUgQeUvujSAg&ved=0CC8Q9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul International Association for Statistical Computing}} - 2008 - 571 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mDh4GThFZHUC&pg=PA349&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAjgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic ordinary and stochastic partial differential equations: - Page 60, 66, 197, 349}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 437,
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Transition from Microscopic to Macroscopic Equations\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Peter+Kotelenez%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Peter Kotelenez}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2008 - 458 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5dKhaLgy9FkC&pg=PA155&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBjhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mathematical modeling, simulation, visualization and e-learning:  - Page 155}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 162\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of an International Workshop Held at Rockefeller Foundation's Bellagio Conference Center, Milan, Italy 2006\uc0\u8236 \'a0\
Approximation of parabolic equations based upon 
\i Wasserstein's
\i0  variational principle,\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9BlHBpq5ZesC&pg=PA268&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFQQ6AEwCDhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Statistical advances in the biomedical sciences: - Page 268}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Clinical Trials, Epidemiology, Survival Analysis, and Bioinformatics
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Atanu+Biswas%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CFUQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Atanu Biswas}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2008 - 582 pages  \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 Atanu Biswas\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Sujay Datta\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Jason P. Fine\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Mark R. Segal Wiley\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Dec 14, 2007\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 640 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6Vw-AQAAIAAJ&q=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDYQ6AEwBDhu"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Bayesian inference and maximum entropy methods in science and }}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul engineering - Page 61, 62\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 28th International Workshop on Bayesian Inference and Maximum Entropy Methods in Science and Engineering, Borac\'e9ia, S\'e3o Paulo, Brazil, 6-11 July 2008\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=110&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marcelo+de+Souza+Lauretto%22&ei=HtNhTfLxEc_PgAfQss3BAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4bg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Marcelo de Souza Lauretto}}, Carlos Alberto de Bragan\'e7a Pereira, Julio Michael Stern - 2008 - 384 pages
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9ByccYe5aI4C&pg=PA486&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Asymptotic theory of statistics and probability - Page 486}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 707
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Anirban+DasGupta%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CFsQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Anirban DasGupta}} - 2008 - 722 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Kolmogorov's
\i0  zero-one law, 6 
\i Kolmogorov and Wasserstein
\i0  metrics, 
\b ...
\b0  536\'96537 infinite-order kernels, 537 kernel density estimation 
\i consistency
\i0  of, 533\'96535 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nxGcdi033qQC&pg=PA66&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCsQ6AEwATi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Computational intelligence in decision and control - Page 66}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the 8th International Flins Conference : Madrid, Spain, 21-24 September2008
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Da+Ruan%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CCwQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Da Ruan}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Javier+Montero%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Javier Montero}}, Jie Lu - 2008 - 1173 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fy7-31pdxmEC&pg=PA82&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDcQ6AEwAzi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Computational methods in biomedical research - Page 82}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Ravindra+Khattree%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Ravindra Khattree}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Dayanand+N.+Naik%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Dayanand N. Naik}} - 2008 - 408 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QEmMvrOkQ-YC&pg=PR16&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFMQ6AEwCDjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Data analysis, machine learning and applications - Page xv, xvi}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 711\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Proceedings of the 31st Annual Conference of the Gesellschaft f\'fcr Klassifikation e.V., Albert-Ludwigs-Universit\'e4t Freiburg, March 7-9, 2007
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Christine+Preisach%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Christine Preisach}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Hans Burkhardt, Lars Schmidt-Thieme - 2008 - 719 pages\
Last row: Corrected Rand Index (CRI) of the obtained partition compared with the expert partition c L2 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Adaptive L2 HausdorffL1 distance 
\b ...
\b0  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=14qHoQgqRKoC&pg=PA70&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAjjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mathematical models of granular matter - Page 70}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Gianfranco+Capriz%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CDIQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Gianfranco Capriz}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Pasquale+Giovine%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Pasquale Giovine}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Alain+Barrat%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CDQQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Alain Barrat}} - 2008 - 212 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=O-n4FZUya70C&pg=PA43&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAzjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mathematics - key technology for the future:  - Page 43}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Joint Projects Between Universities and Industry 2004-2007\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Willi+J%C3%A4ger%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Willi J\'e4ger}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Hans-Joachim Krebs - 2008 - 357 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aIgGxX3KMEQC&pg=PA259&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD0Q6AEwBDjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Analysis and stochastics of growth processes and interface models - Page 259}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=210&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Peter+M%C3%B6rters%22&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Peter M\'f6rters}} - 2008 - 336 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JZEYr6oU70sC&pg=PA21&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFQQ6AEwCTjcAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Seminar on Stochastic Analysis, Random Fields and Applications V:  - Page 21}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Centro Stefano Franscini, Ascona, May 2005
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=220&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Robert+C.+Dalang%22&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&ved=0CFUQ9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Robert C. Dalang}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , M. Dozzi, Francesco Russo - 2008 - 519 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XQ-ZvmjL1Z8C&pg=PA50&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFsQ6AEwBzgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul A stochastic spatial model for invasive plants and a general }}
\fs26 \uc0\u8234 Theory of Monotonicity for Interaction Map Particle Systems\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XQ-ZvmjL1Z8C&pg=PA50&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFsQ6AEwBzgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul - Page 50}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joseph+Patrick+Stover%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CFwQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Joseph Patrick Stover}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joseph+Patrick+Stover%22&q=inauthor:%22The+University+of+Arizona.+Applied+Mathematics%22&ei=5snkTomwDKHo0QHM76WJBg&ved=0CF0Q9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul The University of Arizona. Applied Mathematics}} - 2008 \
The coupling to follow is essentially the same as the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  coupling[37] given for spin systems, also known as the basic coupling [23].\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=qPHcLNUVEm0C&pg=PA242&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAjhk"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul An introduction to sequential dynamical systems - Page 242}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Henning+S.+Mortveit%22&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&ved=0CD8Q9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Henning S. Mortveit}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Henning+S.+Mortveit%22&q=inauthor:%22Christian+M.+Reidys%22&ei=c9LkTt2tPIfw0gGYo_zqBQ&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Christian M. Reidys}} - 2008 - 248 pages\
26. L. N. 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 . Markov processes over denumerable products of spaces describing large system of automata.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=db7hrF9gC-oC&pg=PA188&dq=Vasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Statistical Models and Methods for Biomedical and Technical Systems - Page 188}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Filia+Vonta%22&sa=X&ei=KV7dUI2IGcXZ0QHzjYHoCw&ved=0CEwQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Filia Vonta}}
\b0\fs24 , Mikhail. Nikulin, Nikolaos. Limnios - 2008\
We consider the Kantorovich metric (one of the most-used 
\i Vasserstein
\i0  metrics) /c(/ii, H2) [see Kantorovich (1942)], \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 2009 29 books
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ee.stanford.edu/%7Egray/it.pdf"}}{\fldrslt Entropy and Information - Electrical Engineering - Stanford University}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
Jul 16, 2009 \'96 This 
\i book
\i0  is devoted to the theory of probabilistic information measures and their application 
\b ......
\b0  \
Breiman's and 
\i Billingsley's
\i0  approach requires the martingale convergence theorem 
\b ......
\b0 \
Levenshtein [95] and 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  [146] 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 [PDF]\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=9&sqi=2&ved=0CGwQFjAI&url=http%3A%2F%2Fgsii.usal.es%2F%7ECMMSE%2Fimages%2Fstories%2Fcongreso%2Fvolumen3opt.pdf&ei=-XHkUObGI5OL0QHcioGICA&usg=AFQjCNGP9cloIss2qsiQpJBl7-hdobOHVA&sig2=BHf9zxcsl6Uju1UPxu_dpw&bvm=bv.1355534169,d.dmQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Proceedings of the 2009 International Conference}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul  - Page 846\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f10\fs39 \cf0 on Computational and Mathematical Methods in Science and Engineering\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs19 \cf0 Gij\'f3n (Asturias), Spain June 30, July 1-3, 2009 . Editor 
\b0\fs28 J. Vigo-Aguiar
\b\fs19 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 The Kantorovich-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance between \uc0\u961 0 and \u961 1 verifies: d2(\u961 0,\u961 1) = 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=d6YIyevAQG4C&pg=PA273&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4CngUOWsMOfD0AGEsYGQDw&ved=0CDoQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Transport Equations for Semiconductors - Page 273}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ansgar+J%C3%BCngel%22&ei=4CngUOWsMOfD0AGEsYGQDw&ved=0CDwQ9AgwATgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Ansgar J\'fcngel}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 \
The 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  gradient flow of the Fisher information and the quantum drift-
\i diffusion
\i0  equation. To appear in Arch. Rat.Mech. Anal., 2009. 263 24. A. J\uc0\u32 \u776 ungel
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8Nzn51YTbX4C&pg=PA247&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Theory of Stochastic Processes:  - Page 247}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 249
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 With Applications to Financial Mathematics and Risk Theory\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Dmytro+Gusak%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Dmytro Gusak}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Alexey+Kulik%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CD8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Alexey Kulik}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Yuliya+Mishura%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CEAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Yuliya Mishura}} - 2009 -\uc0\u8234 Springer, 2010\uc0\u8236 -  375 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0387878629, 9780387878621\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein metric
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=x-VbL8mZWl8C&pg=PR10&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEIQ6AEwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Probability, Random Processes, and Ergodic Properties - Page x}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 272 \
R{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Robert+M.+Gray%22&ei=f8FhTcmxOYXpgQfz2bzLAg&ved=0CEMQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 obert M. Gray}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 - 322 pages - In the optimal transportation literature, the German spelling of 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 , Wasserstein,\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CzTI2KXaonkC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Differential+equations:+geometry,+symmetries+and+integrability&hl=en&ei=F8NhTaq0LMz0gAf6weTFAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDIQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b\fs28 \cf2 Differential equations
\i0 \ul : 
\i \ulnone geometry
\i0 \ul , 
\i \ulnone symmetries
\i0 \ul  and 
\i \ulnone integrability
\i0 \ul  : \
}}\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of the Fifth Abel Symposium, Troms\uc0\u371 , Norway, June 1722, 2008
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Boris Kruglikov, Valentin Lychagin, Eldar Straume - \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2009\uc0\u8236  - 386 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3642008739, 9783642008733\uc0\u8236 \
The Otto distance do coincides on Prob with the L2 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance W2. 
\b ...
\b0  a distance. Moreover, recalling the definition of the Arnol'd metric, we may 
\i Differential
\i0  Geometric Heuristic 57 3.4 The Otto Metric 3.5 The L2 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Distance.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hV8o5R7_5tkC&pg=PA93&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDsQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Optimal transport: old and new - Page 93}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 106, 110, 926, 941\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22C%C3%A9dric+Villani%22&sa=X&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&ved=0CDwQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 C\'e9dric Villani}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 - 973 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  (b) the explicit definition of this distance is not so easy to find in Wasserstein's work; and (c) Wasserstein was only interested in the case p = 1. By the way, also the spelling of Wasserstein is doubtful: the original spelling was 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=6&mx-pid=2459454"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2459454
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010f:49001)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=602357"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Villani, C\'e9dric}} Optimal transport. Old and new. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Grundlehren_der_Mathematischen_Wissenschaften"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Grundlehren der Mathematischen Wissenschaften [Fundamental Principles of Mathematical Sciences], 338.}} 
\i Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
\i0  2009. xxii+973 pp. ISBN: 978-3-540-71049-3 (Reviewer: Dario Cordero-Erausquin), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49-02,%2828A75,37J50,49Q20,53C23,58E30%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 49-02 (28A75 37J50 49Q20 53C23 58E30)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1156.53003&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 1156.53003}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:villani.cedric"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Villani, C\'e9dric}}
\b  Optimal transport. Old and new.
\b0  (English)\
Grundlehren der Mathematischen Wissenschaften 338. Berlin: Springer. xxii, 973~p. EUR~99.95/net; SFR~166.00; \\$~159.00; \\sterling~79.00 (2009). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*53-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *53-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:49-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 49-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:90-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 90-02}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:Mihail%20Voicu"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mihail Voicu (Ia\uc0\u351 i)}}\
flows\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hjlMdxmHuEsC&pg=PA23&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Empirical Processes with Applications to Statistics - Page xii, 23}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Galen+R.+Shorack%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Galen R. Shorack}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jon+A.+Wellner%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jon A. Wellner}} - 2009 - 948 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein
\i0  Distance, 62 Definition of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance d2; Mallow's\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VUqi7kkYnbgC&pg=PA256&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CE4Q6AEwCDge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul The statistical mechanics of quantum lattice systems: a path integral approach - Page 239, 256}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 257, 260, 374, 379\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Albeverio%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CE8Q9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Sergio Albeverio}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 European Mathematical Society, 2009\uc0\u8236  - 379 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3037190701, 9783037190708\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hvB2P_0MMeIC&pg=PA148&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CC0Q6AEwATgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Comparing Distributions - Page 148}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=50&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Olivier+Thas%22&ei=zMthTYmNGMudgQemyLXrAg&ved=0CC4Q9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Olivier Thas}} - 2009 - 353 pages\
Calculation of the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  between probability distributions on the line. Theory of Probability 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LXEezzccwcoC&pg=PA253&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAzhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Encyclopedia of Distances - Page 253}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl216\slmult1
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michel+M.+Deza%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michel M. Deza}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=70&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Elena+Deza%22&ei=a85hTdDLHILVgAeeg7TRAg&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Elena Deza}} - 2009 - 590 pages\
fLip\uc0\u8804 1 \u8747  If \u956  and \u957  are probability measures, then it is the Kantorovich\'96Mallows\'96Monge-
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  (cf. Chap. 14).\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wLm72s0t_CkC&pg=PA437&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=KC3gUIGSKcjL0AGz9IHgDw&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Random Matrices: High Dimensional Phenomena - Page 437}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Gordon+Blower%22&ei=KC3gUIGSKcjL0AGz9IHgDw&ved=0CFMQ9AgwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Gordon Blower}}
\b0\fs24  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  150 symmetric powers 374 symmetric 
\i diffusion
\i0  semigroup 381 symmetric group, infinite 352 symmetric tensor powers 
\b ...
\b0  Wallis's product 29 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric 100 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric dual form 101 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric in\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=5&mx-pid=2566878"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2566878}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=272253"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Blower, Gordon}} Random matrices: high dimensional phenomena. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=London_Mathematical_Society_Lecture_Note_Series"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series, 367.}} 
\i Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
\i0  2009. x+437 pp. ISBN: 978-0-521-13312-8 (Reviewer: Michael Stolz), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B20"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 60B20}}\cf5 \ul   page 100\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=bmy89K9VjHIC&pg=PA386&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=H9RhTe4fx9SBB7319KQC&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CE0Q6AEwCDh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Wahrscheinlichkeitstheorie - Page 386}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=120&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Achim+Klenke%22&ei=H9RhTe4fx9SBB7319KQC&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4eA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Achim Klenke}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 - 624 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6Cg5Nq5sSv4C&pg=PA199&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CCwQ6AEwATiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Markov chains and mixing times - Page 199}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 361\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22David+Asher+Levin%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CC0Q9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 David Asher Levin}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Yuval+Peres%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CC4Q9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Yuval Peres}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Elizabeth+Lee+Wilmer%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CC8Q9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Elizabeth Lee Wilmer}} - 2009 - 371 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vasershtein
\i0 , L. N. 1969. Markov processes over denumerable products of\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xnBSOsKpRgYC&pg=PA77&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFQQ6AEwCDiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Selected papers on probability and statistics - Page 77}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 92\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22American+Mathematical+Society%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CFUQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 American Mathematical Society}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22United+States.+Office+of+Naval+Research%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CFYQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul United States. Office of Naval Research}} - 2009 - 231 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Stochastic convergence through Skorohod representation theorems and 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics, Suppl. Rendic. Circolo Matem. Palermo II, 35 (1994), 89-113. [21] P. Dai Pra, A stochastic control approach to reciprocal 
\i diffusion\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xZvLBvqN8fsC&pg=PA109&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul The geometry of infinite-dimensional groups - Page 109}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Boris+A.+Khesin%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Boris A. Khesin}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Robert+Wendt%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Robert Wendt}} - 2009 - 304 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7znUr0A1nkIC&pg=PA61&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CD8Q6AEwBDigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Optimal transportation networks: models and theory - Page 61}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marc+Bernot%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Marc Bernot}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Vicent+Caselles%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Vicent Caselles}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Jean-Michel+Morel%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CEIQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jean-Michel Morel}} - 2009 - 200 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JNJv7R1q9eIC&pg=PA352&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFkQ6AEwCDigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Random trees: an interplay between combinatorics and probability - Page xii, 347, 352}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 458\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michael+Drmota%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CFoQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michael Drmota}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2009\uc0\u8236  - 458 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3211753575, 9783211753576\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein metric\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=5&mx-pid=2484382"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2484382
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010i:05003)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=59890"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Drmota, Michael}} Random trees. An interplay between combinatorics and probability. 
\i SpringerWienNewYork, Vienna,
\i0  2009. xviii+458 pp. ISBN: 978-3-211-75355-2 (Reviewer: Lyuben R. Mutafchiev), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=05-02,%2805C80,60-02,60C05,68P05,68P10,68W40%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 05-02 (05C80 60-02 60C05 68P05 68P10 68W40)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VjGNnIthWKkC&pg=PA352&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CF4Q6AEwCTigAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Operations research proceedings 2008:  - Page 352}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Selected Papers of the Annual International Conference of the German Operations Research Society (GOR), University of Augsburg, September 3-5, 2008\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Bernhard+Fleischmann%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CF8Q9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Bernhard Fleischmann}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Karl-Heinz+Borgwardt%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CGAQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Karl-Heinz Borgwardt}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=160&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Robert+Klein%22&ei=k9hhTcL0C8HJgQfD0JW_Ag&ved=0CGEQ9Ag4oAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Robert Klein}} - \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2009\uc0\u8236  - 580 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3642001424, 9783642001420\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=VgOvrfOLZB8C&pg=PA275&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEIQ6AEwBTiqAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Large random matrices: lectures on macroscopic asymptotics :  - Page 275}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 \'c9cole D'\'c9t\'e9 de Probabilit\'e9s de Saint-Flour XXXVI \'96 2006\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Alice+Guionnet%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CEMQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Alice Guionnet}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 - 294 pages {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Lecture+notes+in+mathematics+%28Springer-Verlag%29+%3B+1957%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=7"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Lecture notes in mathematics (Springer-Verlag) ; 1957}}\
Necessary optimality conditions for geodesics in weighted 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  spaces.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5Y9cnmtLGQYC&pg=PA133&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAzi0AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Monte Carlo and Quasi-Monte Carlo Methods 2008 - Page 133}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Pierre+L%27%C3%89cuyer%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Pierre L'\'c9cuyer}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Art+B.+Owen%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Art B. Owen}} - 2009 - 672 pages\
Since the latter two quantities can equivalently be defined in terms of the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance on the space of Borel\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-mzTGfO-fkUC&pg=PA337&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Computing and Combinatorics:  - Page 337}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 15Th Annual International Conference, Cocoon 2009 Niagara Falls, Ny, Usa, July 13-15, 2009: Proceedings
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Hung+Q.+Ngo%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Hung Q. Ngo}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 - 540 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Rav0K1JFqE8C&pg=PA159&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAjjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Applied Shape Optimization for Fluids - Page 159}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22B.+Mohammadi%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CDEQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul B. Mohammadi}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Olivier+Pironneau%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Olivier Pironneau}} - 2009 - 304 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=N28mUNHxeYQC&pg=PA127&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=MeVhTfm0B8nZgAeIrej4AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDAQ6AEwAjjmAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Labelled Markov processes - Page 127}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
P{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=230&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Prakash+Panangaden%22&ei=MeVhTfm0B8nZgAeIrej4AQ&ved=0CDEQ9Ag45gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 rakash Panangaden}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 - 199 pages\
Vaserstein (or Wasserstein) metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=x-VbL8mZWl8C&pg=PA272&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Probability, Random Processes, and Ergodic Properties - Page 272}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 315\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Robert+M.+Gray%22&sa=X&ei=tcHkTvHsMeTl0QHh07H1BQ&ved=0CFEQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Robert M. Gray}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2009 - 322 pages\
Vasershtein, Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PUxuKuW_vGEC&pg=PA130&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=IT_gULnvDaaW0QHsloC4CQ&ved=0CF4Q6AEwCDhu"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul S\'e9minaire de Probabilit\'e9s XLII - Page 130}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Catherine Donati-Martin, Michel \'c9mery, Alain Rouault - 2009
\b\fs28 \

\b0\fs24 Non-monotone Convergence in the Quadratic 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Distance Walter Schachermayer1, Uwe 130 L. Miclo.\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2599203"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2599203
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010h:60007)}} S\'e9minaire de probabilit\'e9s XLII. [Seminar on Probability Theory XLII] Edited by Catherine Donati-Martin, Michel \'c9mery, Alain Rouault and Christophe Stricker. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Lecture_Notes_in_Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Lecture Notes in Mathematics, 1979.}} \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
\i0  2009. xiv+449 pp. ISBN: 978-3-642-01762-9, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60-06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 60-06}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1213.60002&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 1213.60002}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:andres.sebastian"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Andres, Sebastian}}
\b  Diffusion processes with reflection.
\b0  (English)\
Berlin: TU Berlin, Fakult\'e4t II, Mathematik und Naturwissenschaften (Diss.). 114~p. (2009). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*60-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *60-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:60J60"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 60J60}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=vaserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2547644"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2547644
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2011a:20055)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=157975"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Segal, Dan}} Words: notes on verbal width in groups. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=London_Mathematical_Society_Lecture_Note_Series"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series, 361.}} 
\i Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
\i0  2009. xii+121 pp. ISBN: 978-0-521-74766-0 (Reviewer: Benjamin Klopsch), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=20E10,%2820-02,20F10,20F12,20G25,20G35,20M05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 20E10 (20-02 20F10 20F12 20G25 20G35 20M05)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 Zbl 1156.82001                    Presutti, Errico             Scaling limits in statistical mechanics and microstructures in continuum mechanics. (English)    \
Theoretical and Mathematical Physics. Berlin: Springer (ISBN 978-3-540-73304-1/hbk). xvi, 467 p. EUR 69.95/net; SFR 116.50; \'a3 52.50; $ 109.00 (2009).
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein 2010  46 books
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dP2wL2_dLJ8C&pg=PA41&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=osNhTd6CB4nEgQfoqpS1Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFYQ6AEwCQ#v=onepage&q=Wasserstein%20subject:%22mathematics%22&f=false"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Studies in Classification, Data Analysis, and Knowledge Organization  \uc0\u8236 - Page 41, 42}}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Data Analysis and Classification: from Exploration to Confirmation\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Francesco+Palumbo%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=6"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Francesco Palumbo}}\cf4  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2010\uc0\u8236   \uc0\u8234 482 pages ISBN3642037399, 9783642037399\uc0\u8236 \
Clustering linear models using Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein
\i0 . 
\i Distance
\i0 . Antonio Irpino and Rosanna Verde Abstract This paper deals with the clustering of complex data. 
\b ...
\b0  We show the properties of the proposed 
\i metric
\i0  and an application to real data using a dynamic clustering algorithm. 
\b ...
\b0  is a set of probability distributions associated with the sample 
\i space
\i0  S, while a parameterized statistical model is a parameter set \uc0\u920  together with a function
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/Data-Analysis-Classification-Proceedings-Organization/dp/3642037380"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone Data Analysis and Classification: Proceedings of the 6th Conference of the Classification and Data Analysis Group of the Societ\'e0 Italiana di ... Data Analysis, and Knowledge Organization)}}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_1?_encoding=UTF8&field-author=Francesco%20Palumbo&ie=UTF8&search-alias=books&sort=relevancerank"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Francesco Palumbo}}
\b0\fs24  (Editor), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_2?_encoding=UTF8&field-author=Carlo%20Natale%20Lauro&ie=UTF8&search-alias=books&sort=relevancerank"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Carlo Natale Lauro}} (Editor), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.amazon.com/s/ref=ntt_athr_dp_sr_3?_encoding=UTF8&field-author=Michael%20Greenacre&ie=UTF8&search-alias=books&sort=relevancerank"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Michael Greenacre}} (Editor)\
Springer; 1st Edition. edition (December 17, 2009) 504 pp  
\b ISBN-10:
\b0  3642037380 
\b ISBN-13:
\b0  978-3642037382\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2664206"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2664206
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2011b:62004)}} Data analysis and classification. Proceedings of the 6th Conference of the Classification and Data Analysis Group of the Societ\'e0 Italiana di Statistica (CLADAG) held in Macerata, September 12\'9614, 2007. Edited by Francesco Palumbo, Carlo Natale Lauro and Michael J. Greenacre. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Studies_in_Classification"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Studies in Classification, Data Analysis, and Knowledge Organization.}} 
\i Springer-Verlag, Berlin,
\i0  2010. xxii+482 pp. ISBN: 978-3-642-03738-2, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62-06"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 62-06}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=2ttHbwAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein+distance+OR+metric+OR+space+-wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XpXlUO7POsS60QGyloHoCQ&ved=0CDQQ6AEwADgo"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Measure Theory: }}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Sigma-Algebra, Cantor Set, Measure, Dirac Delta Function, Measurable Function, Null Set, Borel-cantelli Lemma
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Books, LLC, Books Group - 2010\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NUM2bwAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein+distance+OR+metric+OR+space+-wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=sI_lUOClIqni0gGl8IHYCw&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b\fs28 \cf4 Metric
\i0 \ul  Geometry: }}\uc0\u8234 Metric Space, Complete Metric Space, Cauchy Sequence, Euclidean Distance, Triangle Inequality, Curve, Hausdorff Dimension\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Books,+LLC%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=3"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Books, LLC}}\cf4  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 General Books, 2010\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 1156531802, 9781156531808\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 332 pages
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=n4ZV-Awdsk0C&pg=PA353&dq=wasserstein+distance+OR+metric+OR+space+-wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=sI_lUOClIqni0gGl8IHYCw&ved=0CEMQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 26Th Southern Biomedical Engineering Conference Sbec 2010, April 30 - May 2, 2010, College Park, MD - Page 353}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Keith E. Herold, Jafar. Vossoughi, William E. Bentley - 2010 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  approach to digital pathology that relies on measuring the optimal transportation (Kantorovich-
\i Wasserstein
\i0 ) 
\i metric
\i0  between pairs of 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=hvB2P_0MMeIC&pg=PA348&dq=wasserstein+distance+OR+metric+OR+space+-wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=UpPlUMzsHKXb0wHY3ICgAg&ved=0CGMQ6AEwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Comparing distributions - Page 341, 348}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&noj=1&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Olivier+Thas%22&ei=UpPlUMzsHKXb0wHY3ICgAg&ved=0CGUQ9AgwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Olivier Thas}}
\b0\fs24  - 2010    See 2009\
An extension of the Anderson-Darling k-sample test to arbitrary sample 
\i space
\i0  partition sizes. Journal of Statistical Computation and 
\b ...
\b0  Calculation of the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  between probability distributions on the line. Theory of Probability 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-uKucQAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein+distance+OR+metric+OR+space+-wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=UJTlUJ_SPMqt0AHj_YDIBg&ved=0CEUQ6AEwAzge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Probability Theory: Doomsday Argument}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&noj=1&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Source+Wikipedia%22&ei=UJTlUJ_SPMqt0AHj_YDIBg&ved=0CEcQ9AgwAzge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Source Wikipedia}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Books Llc, Books Group - 2010\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN1156574188, 9781156574188
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dojJ6QrTugoC&pg=PA259&dq=Wasserstein+gradient&hl=en&sa=X&ei=vkfgUP7yD-Pb0QGqg4HgDA&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Control Theory and Systems Biology - Page 252, 253, 259}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Pablo+A.+Iglesias%22&ei=vkfgUP7yD-Pb0QGqg4HgDA&ved=0CEUQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Pablo A. Iglesias}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Brian+P.+Ingalls%22&ei=vkfgUP7yD-Pb0QGqg4HgDA&ved=0CEYQ9AgwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Brian P. Ingalls}} - 2010 \
minimize the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  pseudometric W1d\'f0P1;P3\'f0k1;k2\'de\'de, where P3\'f0k1;k2\'de is the probability measure generated by the simple reaction network in figure 12.1a. This algorithm is an extension of the standard 
\i gradient
\i0  descent method that 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PRO-bwAACAAJ&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2kTgUPmaMsS60AGHtoHQDA&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Probabilistic Approach to Geometry}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Motoko+Kotani%22&ei=2kTgUPmaMsS60AGHtoHQDA&ved=0CGIQ9AgwCTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Motoko Kotani}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Masanori+Hino%22&ei=2kTgUPmaMsS60AGHtoHQDA&ved=0CGMQ9AgwCTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Masanori Hino}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Takashi+Kumagai%22&ei=2kTgUPmaMsS60AGHtoHQDA&ved=0CGQQ9AgwCTiWAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Takashi Kumagai}} - 2010 \uc0\u8234 ISBN4931469582, 9784931469587\uc0\u8236 \
On Wasserstein Geometry of Gaussian Measures 
\i (A Takatsu)
\i0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Gnjqr6P9dcgC&pg=PA15&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NjzgUI7VDPCo0AG9woHoBQ&ved=0CEYQ6AEwAzhk"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 European Congress of Mathematics, Amsterdam, 14-18 July, 2008 - Page 15}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Andr\'e9 Ran, H. J. J. te Riele, Jan Wiegerinck - 2010\
J. A. Carrillo, R. J. McCann, and C. Villani, Contractions in the 2-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  length space and thermalization of granular 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-gG6bfIfT8cC&pg=PA210&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=NSfgUNaIIsnk0gGcloGwCg&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 The Poisson-Dirichlet Distribution and Related Topics:  - Page 209, 210}}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Models and Asymptotic Behaviors
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Shui+Feng%22&sa=X&ei=NSfgUNaIIsnk0gGcloGwCg&ved=0CD8Q9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Shui Feng}}
\b0\fs24  -  Springer 2010  \uc0\u8234 ISBN3642111947, 9783642111945\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein metric\
The logarithmic Sobolev inequality for the 
\i Wasserstein diffusion
\i0 . Probab. Theory Relat.
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=FzvNfkMjvPwC&pg=PA1430&dq=Wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Handbook of Mathematical Methods in Imaging - Page 1404, 1430}}
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbo=1&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Otmar+Scherzer%22&ei=kL9hTYHEOo6SgQfkpZzgAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Otmar Scherzer}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 1607 pages Gromov\'96
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Distances.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6MnHXq5QPwIC&pg=PA87&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mathematical Modeling of Collective Behavior in Socio-Economic and Life Sciences - Page 87}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 88, 333, 351\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Giovanni+Naldi%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Giovanni Naldi}}
\b0\fs24 , Lorenzo Pareschi, Giuseppe Toscani - 2010 - 438 pages\
Carrillo, J.A., McCann, R., Villani, C.: Contractions in the 2-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  length space and thermalization of granular media.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein distance
\i0  is O(\uc0\u948 ). 
\b ...
\b0  interpreted as an explicit Euler discretization in time of a gradient flow on the 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0 , at least for sufficiently smooth motion mappings, cf. [1,38,50]. \
Therefore, the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  may be\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth15680\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth15440\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt40 \clpadl160 \clpadb40 \clpadr40 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MDXa6gFRZuIC&pg=PA184&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Computational topology: an introduction - Page 180, 184}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Herbert+Edelsbrunner%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CEgQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Herbert Edelsbrunner}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22John+Harer%22&ei=D8VhTYz1I4nEgQeesY3fAg&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul John Harer}} - 2010 - 241 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein
\i0  stability. Although a general stability result like the one for the bottleneck distance is out of reach, we get stability under the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance for a reasonably large class of functions. Let X be a metric 
\i space
\i0 , that is, 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=2572029"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2572029
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2011e:00001)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=61770"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Edelsbrunner, Herbert}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=81320"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Harer, John L.}} Computational topology. An introduction. 
\i American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI,
\i0  2010. xii+241 pp. ISBN: 978-0-8218-4925-5 (Reviewer: Andrzej Kozlowski),\
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=00-02,%2805C10,52-02,55-02,57-02,65D18,68U05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 00-02 (05C10 52-02 55-02 57-02 65D18 68U05)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NR-gsTq0p-UC&pg=PA458&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mean Field Models for Spin Glasses: Volume I: Basic Examples - Page 414, 458}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 460, 477\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=30&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michel+Talagrand%22&ei=M8hhTcjgDofrgQeR6YHPAg&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michel Talagrand}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 485 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yc8quA1IR4sC&pg=PA120&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFgQ6AEwCTgo"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Recursive Partitioning and Applications - Page 117, 120}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 121, 259\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Heping+Zhang%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Heping Zhang}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=40&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Burton+H.+Singer%22&ei=aclhTbepKIXqgAf6zrT5AQ&ved=0CFoQ9Ag4KA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Burton H. Singer}} - 2010 - 259 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=SdTBtMGgeAUC&pg=PA252&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEEQ6AEwBTg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Shapes and Diffeomorphisms - Page 252}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 429, 434\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=60&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Laurent+Younes%22&ei=88xhTcGwN4nQgAeZm62vAg&ved=0CEIQ9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Laurent Younes}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 434 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=0ndFpm_6GCMC&pg=PA322&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFMQ6AEwCDhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Nonlinear Markov Processes and Kinetic Equations - Page 322}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Vassili+N.+Kolokoltsov%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Vassili N. Kolokoltsov}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 400 pages\
Another convenient way to metricize the weak topology of measures is using 
\i Wasserstein
\i0 \'96Kantorovich distances.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=WY9pdogwZB0C&pg=PA43&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=6dFhTcifHsjZgAftmKy6Ag&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCYQ6AEwADha"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations and Hyperbolic Wave Phenomena - Page 35, 43}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=90&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22H.+Holden%22&ei=6dFhTcifHsjZgAftmKy6Ag&ved=0CCcQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 H. Holden}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=90&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Kenneth+Hvistendahl+Karlsen%22&ei=6dFhTcifHsjZgAftmKy6Ag&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Kenneth Hvistendahl Karlsen}} - 2010 - 389 pages\
Before that, let us remind the reader the definition of the euclidean 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=f3QHuc8Q87sC&pg=PA227&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFgQ6AEwCThQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Stochastic Analysis 2010 - Page 227}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Dan+Crisan%22&ei=N9BhTa6XOdLpgQftnrHQAg&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Dan Crisan}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 390 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  coefficients (
\i diffusion
\i0 , drift and L\uc0\u32 \u769 evy measure) depending Lipschitz continuously on its parameters generates a Markov semigroup, where the measures are metricized by the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0 \'96Kantorovich metrics Wp. The analysis of SDE driven\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LK81eRIgB9sC&pg=PA413&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFMQ6AEwCDiMAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Mutational Analysis:  - Page 134, 4}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul 13, 421\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 A Joint Framework for Cauchy Problems in and Beyond Vector Spaces\uc0\u8236 , Issue 1996\'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=140&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Thomas+Lorenz%22&ei=GtVhTaDdO4PEgQewgM2vAg&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4jAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Thomas Lorenz}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 509 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=49bXK26O_b4C&pg=PA370&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBziWAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Hyperbolic Conservation Laws in Continuum Physics - Page 370}}\cf2 \ul  , 610\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=150&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Constantine+M.+Dafermos%22&ei=w9ZhTYXCD5DVgAfL2OWdAg&ved=0CFAQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Constantine M. Dafermos}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 708 pages\
Asymptotics in terms of the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  is discussed by Carrillo, DiFrancesco and Lattanzio [1].\
Contractivity of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics and asymptotic profiles for scalar conservation laws. J\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=UFqIVhSDDdAC&pg=PA351&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFoQ6AEwCTi0AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Financial Economics - Page 351}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Thorsten+Hens%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CFsQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Thorsten Hens}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Marc+Oliver+Rieger%22&ei=GNxhTaWgMo-dgQeijfHTAg&ved=0CFwQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Marc Oliver Rieger}} - 2010 - 373 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5jMVpAbs9UkC&pg=PA64&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFcQ6AEwCTi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Normal Approximation by Stein's Method - Page 64}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 386, 404\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Louis+H.+Y.+Chen%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CFgQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Louis H. Y. Chen}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Larry+Goldstein%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Larry Goldstein}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=190&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Qi-Man+Shao%22&ei=2N1hTarzL8WtgQewiYWzAg&ved=0CFoQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Qi-Man Shao}} - 2010 - 405 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7I7hqdi7MdgC&pg=PA141&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBzjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Stochastic Programming: The State of the Art in Honor of George B.  Dantzig - Page 141}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 362\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22George+B.+Dantzig%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 George B. Dantzig}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=200&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Gerd+Infanger%22&ei=n-BhTbnsIIqRgQe6x639AQ&ved=0CE8Q9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Gerd Infanger}} - 2010 - 362 pages\
Wasserstein distances\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nEBfBghRSgsC&pg=PA272&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=keJhTZz1NcXYgAev153bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CC0Q6AEwATjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Algorithmic Learning Theory:  - Page 272}}\cf2 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 21st International Conference, ALT 2010, Canberra, Australia, October 6-8, 2010. Proceedings\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Marcus Hutter, Frank Stephan, Vladimir Vovk - 2010 - 421 pages\
Wasserstein Distances\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Gnjqr6P9dcgC&pg=PR25&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDUQ6AEwAzjcAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul European Congress of Mathematics , Amsterdam, 14\'9618 July, 2008 - Page xxv}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 7, 15\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=220&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Andre+Ran%22&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&ved=0CDYQ9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Andre Ran}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=220&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22A.C.M.+Ran,+Herman+te+Riele,+Jan+Wiegerinck,+editors%22&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&ved=0CDcQ9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul A.C.M. Ran, Herman te Riele, Jan Wiegerinck, editors}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=220&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Herman+Te+Riele%22&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&ved=0CDgQ9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Herman Te Riele}} - 2010 \
Wasserstein Distances\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth15680\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadl0 \clpadr0 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics In Industry / the European Consortium for Mathematics In Industry\uc0\u8236 :
\b0\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Qy-Wwb4Nrh8C&pg=PA172&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDwQ6AEwBDjcAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4 Scientific Computing in Electrical Engineering SCEE 2008 - Page 172}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc4  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=220&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Janne+Roos%22&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&ved=0CD0Q9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Janne Roos}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=220&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Luis+R.+J.+Costa%22&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Luis R. J. Costa}} - 2010 - 588 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rdEPEwxQoiIC&pg=PA582&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBjjcAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Combining Soft Computing and Statistical Methods in Data Analysis - Page 582}}\cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=220&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Christian+Borgelt%22&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&ved=0CEgQ9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Christian Borgelt}}, Gil Gonz\'e1lez Rodr\'edguez, Wolfgang Trutschnig - 2010 - 644 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=l8e7mcS6ivQC&pg=PA74&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=CORhTaGEAo_4gAe9iPX9AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBzjcAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul S\'e9minaire de Probabilit\'e9s XLIII - Page 39, 74}}\cf2 \ul , 94
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
Catherine Donati-Martin, Antoine Lejay, Alain Rouault - 2010 - 503 pages\
This includes all 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distances with respectto the time- dependent Riemannian metric generated by the symbol of the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1bn-ME3yIDAC&pg=PA39&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCgQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Discrete Groups, Expanding Graphs and Invariant Measures - Page 39}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Alexander+Lubotzky%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CCkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Alexander Lubotzky}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 208 pages \
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=cscBVMCykn8C&pg=PA317&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CC0Q6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Collected Papers of John Milnor: V. Algebra - Page 317}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22John+Milnor%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CC4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 John Milnor}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Hyman Bass, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22T.+Y.+Lam%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CC8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul T. Y. Lam}} - 2011 - 408 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs26 \cf0 L.N.Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jtWGzHk8fqgC&pg=PA160&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Finite fields:  - Page 160}}\cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone T\uc0\u8234 heory and Applications: Ninth International Conference Finite Field and Applications, July 13-17, 2009, Dublin, Ireland\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Gary McGuire, Gary L. Mullen, Daniel Panario - 2010 - 384 pages\
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nwqCcgAACAAJ&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDcQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Ideals and Reality: Projective Modules and Number of Generators of Ideals .}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Friedrich+Ischebeck%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CDgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Friedrich Ischebeck}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Ravi+A.+Rao%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Ravi A. Rao}} - 2010 - 336 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XeFlQwAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=TJ1jTbTjA4LagAely43bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFQQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein
\i0 \ul  Metric: Mathematics,}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  Metric
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Mathematics, Metric (mathematics), Measure (mathematics), Metric Space, Computer Science, Earth Mover's Distance, Radon Measure, Conditional Probability, Expected Value\uc0\u8236 \
Lambert M. Surhone, Miriam T. Timpledon, Susan F. Marseken -\uc0\u8234 Betascript Publishing\uc0\u8236 , 2010 - \uc0\u8234 100 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Uz5JSU9anuYC&pg=PA301&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=QJ5jTbT0E5DQgAfq_cCXAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Advances in Multimedia Modeling: 16th International Multimedia Modeling - Page 295, 296, 297, 301}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Susanne+Boll%22&ei=QJ5jTbT0E5DQgAfq_cCXAg&ved=0CEsQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Susanne Boll}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Qi Tian, Lei Zhang - 2010 - 806 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gB1F4aVv9GQC&pg=PA777&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=QJ9jTcS-BIrbgQfxoO3jAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEMQ6AEwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Computer Vision -- ECCV 2010:  Part 5 - Page 771, 777}}\cf2 \ul , 783
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 11th European Conference on Computer Vision, Heraklion, Crete, Greece, September 5-11, 2010, Proceedings\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Kostas Daniilidis, Petros Maragos, Nikos Paragios - 2010\
The resulting high dimensional distributions are matched to perform retrieval using a fast approximate 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric. 
\b ...
\b0  It is possible to replace the geodesic distance by a 
\i diffusion
\i0  distance [15] computed by solving a linear Poisson PDE.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=c801SpxZH_IC&pg=PA183&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=W6FjTZm6Ec33gAfEpZyaAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDcQ6AEwAzhQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Medical Imaging and Augmented Reality: 5th International Workshop, MIAR September 19-20, 2010, Beijing, China - Page 183}}\cf2 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=80&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Hongen+Liao%22&ei=W6FjTZm6Ec33gAfEpZyaAg&ved=0CDgQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Hongen Liao}}, P. J. Edwards, Xiaochuan Pan - 2010 - 573 pages\
he Earth Mover's Distance The Earth Mover's Distance, also called Kantorovich-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance, can be visualized as\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=n4ZV-Awdsk0C&pg=PA353&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=CaRjTb2dJoycgQe4woz4AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCcQ6AEwADi0AQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 26th Southern Biomedical Engineering Conferencesbec 2010, April 30 - May 2 - Page 353}}\cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Keith E. Herold, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=180&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Jafar+Vossoughi%22&ei=CaRjTb2dJoycgQe4woz4AQ&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Jafar Vossoughi}}, William E. Bentley - 2010 - 1000 pages,\
Wasserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XjNLshgxpxUC&pg=PA807&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=7qVjTev1McG_gQfI8PD-AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CCcQ6AEwADj6AQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Numerical Solution of Stochastic Differential Equations with Jumps in Finance - Page 608, 807}}\cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=250&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Eckhard+Platen%22&ei=7qVjTev1McG_gQfI8PD-AQ&ved=0CCgQ9Ag4-gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Eckhard Platen}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=250&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Nicola+Bruti-Liberati%22&ei=7qVjTev1McG_gQfI8PD-AQ&ved=0CCkQ9Ag4-gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Nicola Bruti-Liberati}} - 2010 - 856 pages -\
Discretization for stochastic differential equations, Lp 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics, and econometrical models. In Distributions with fixed 
\b ...
\b0  
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=EzkG1lf2G8kC&pg=PA447&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=S6ZjTf3YLIHAgQf66IzeAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFYQ6AEwCDiOAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Differentiable Measures and the Malliavin Calculus - Page 447}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 470\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=270&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+I.+Bogachev%22&ei=S6ZjTf3YLIHAgQf66IzeAg&ved=0CFcQ9Ag4jgI"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Vladimir I. Bogachev}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2010 - 501 pages\
 Sturm K.-T. Entropic measure and 
\i Wasserstein diffusion
\i0 . \
Fang S., Shao J., Sturm K.-Th. 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  over the Wiener 
\i space
\i0 .\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=FXcOpMUBXtEC&pg=PA211&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=o6ZjTeG5HcjKgQeRj9j3AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBziYAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Paris-Princeton Lectures on Mathematical Finance 2010 - Page 211}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=280&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Areski+Cousin%22&ei=o6ZjTeG5HcjKgQeRj9j3AQ&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4mAI"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Areski Cousin}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=280&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22St%C3%A9phane+Cr%C3%A9pey%22&ei=o6ZjTeG5HcjKgQeRj9j3AQ&ved=0CE8Q9Ag4mAI"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul St\'e9phane Cr\'e9pey}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=280&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Olivier+Gu%C3%A9ant%22&ei=o6ZjTeG5HcjKgQeRj9j3AQ&ved=0CFAQ9Ag4mAI"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Olivier Gu\'e9ant}} - 2010 - 359 pages\
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=---1n4Ui-X0C&pg=PA144&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=c6djTYLTJML3gAeZ94jQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CC0Q6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Characteristic Functions, Scattering Functions and Transfer Functions - Page 144}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Daniel+Alpay%22&ei=c6djTYLTJML3gAeZ94jQAg&ved=0CC4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Daniel Alpay}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Victor+Vinnikov%22&ei=c6djTYLTJML3gAeZ94jQAg&ved=0CC8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Victor Vinnikov}} - 2010 - 389 pages -\
The second result we need is due to 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  ([14], Theorem 3) Theorem 5.4. \
Given a ring A with stable rank k, let Mn(A) denote the ring of nxn matrices with\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=I3JSzBTMV94C&pg=PA67&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&ei=c6djTYLTJML3gAeZ94jQAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul An Outline of Ergodic Theory - Page 67}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Steven+Kalikow%22&ei=c6djTYLTJML3gAeZ94jQAg&ved=0CDQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Steven Kalikow}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Randall+McCutcheon%22&ei=c6djTYLTJML3gAeZ94jQAg&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Randall McCutcheon}} - 2010 - 182 pages\
The dbar distance is closely related to various distance metrics that have been around for a long time, going by the names 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance, Monge\'96Kantorovich transportation metric, earth mover's distance, etc.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=zXdT7pXY9EQC&pg=PA20&dq=Wasserstein+gradient&hl=en&sa=X&ei=vkfgUP7yD-Pb0QGqg4HgDA&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Differential Forms on 
\i \ulnone Wasserstein
\i0 \ul  Space and Infinite-Dimensional Hamiltonian Systems - Page 1, 2, 20}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 80\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Wilfrid+Gangbo%22&ei=euXkTvvvEILY0QGwypj7BQ&ved=0CDQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wilfrid Gangbo}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Wilfrid+Gangbo%22&q=inauthor:%22Hwa+Kil+Kim%22&ei=euXkTvvvEILY0QGwypj7BQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hwa Kil Kim}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=X&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Wilfrid+Gangbo%22&q=inauthor:%22Hwa+Kil+Kim%22&q=inauthor:%22Tommaso+Pacini%22&ei=euXkTvvvEILY0QGwypj7BQ&ved=0CDYQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tommaso Pacini}} - 2010 - 77 pages AMS Mem\
Wasserstein space, Wasserstein theory\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=&s6=&s7=wasserstein&s8=Books&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2605602"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2605602
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010m:58002)}} Probabilistic approach to geometry. Papers from the 1st Conference of the Seasonal Institute of the Mathematical Society of Japan held at Kyoto University, Kyoto, July 28\'96August 8, 2008. Edited by Motoko Kotani, Masanori Hino and Takashi Kumagai. \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Advanced_Studies_in_Pure_Mathematics"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Advanced Studies in Pure Mathematics, 57.}} 
\i Mathematical Society of Japan, Tokyo,
\i0  2010. xvi+514 pp. ISBN: 978-4-931469-58-7, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=58-06,%2858J65,60-06%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 58-06 (58J65 60-06)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf5 \ul \ulc5 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs28 \cf0 Vasserstein and Vasershtein 2010   4 books
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=---1n4Ui-X0C&pg=PA144&dq=Vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=bIflUKHxGdGu0AHhroC4Dg&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Characteristic Functions, Scattering Functions and Transfer ... - Page 144}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Daniel+Alpay%22&sa=X&ei=bIflUKHxGdGu0AHhroC4Dg&ved=0CDYQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Daniel Alpay}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Victor+Vinnikov%22&sa=X&ei=bIflUKHxGdGu0AHhroC4Dg&ved=0CDcQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Victor Vinnikov}} - 2010 \
The second result we need is due to 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  ([14], Theorem 3) Theorem 5.4. Given a ring A with stable rank k, let Mn(A) denote the ring of nxn matrices with entries from A. The stable rank of Mn(A) is 1 \'97 [\'97 ^=^-], where [r] denotes the 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=I3JSzBTMV94C&pg=PA67&dq=Vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=bIflUKHxGdGu0AHhroC4Dg&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul An Outline of Ergodic Theory - Page 67}}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Steven+Kalikow%22&sa=X&ei=bIflUKHxGdGu0AHhroC4Dg&ved=0CD0Q9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Steven Kalikow}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Randall+McCutcheon%22&sa=X&ei=bIflUKHxGdGu0AHhroC4Dg&ved=0CD4Q9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Randall McCutcheon}} - 2010 \
The dbar distance is closely related to various distance metrics that have been around for a long time, going by the names 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance, Monge\'96Kantorovich transportation metric, earth mover's distance, etc. See the two volume
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=PWSllsCa5aYC&pg=PT998&dq=Vasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XIjlUL3yCMms0AHZ34GQDQ&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Handbook of Social Economics SET: 1A, 1B: 1A, 1B}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Jess Benhabib, Alberto Bisin, Matthew O. Jackson - \uc0\u8234 Newnes, 2010\uc0\u8236   \uc0\u8234 ISBN0444537139, 9780444537133\uc0\u8236   1600 pp\
Random Fields and Interacting Particle Systems. Providence: Mathematical Association of America, 1971. G. Topa. Social Interactions, Local Spillover and Unemployment. The Review of Economic Studies. 2001;68:261-295. L.N. 
\i Vasserstein
\i0 .
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=-jjvxfwcleYC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Vasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XIjlUL3yCMms0AHZ34GQDQ&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Quantum Mechanics and Path Integrals: Emended Edition}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Richard+Phillips+Feynman%22&sa=X&ei=XIjlUL3yCMms0AHZ34GQDQ&ved=0CD8Q9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Richard Phillips Feynman}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Albert+R.+Hibbs%22&sa=X&ei=XIjlUL3yCMms0AHZ34GQDQ&ved=0CEAQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Albert R. Hibbs}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Daniel+F.+Styer%22&sa=X&ei=XIjlUL3yCMms0AHZ34GQDQ&ved=0CEEQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Daniel F. Styer}} - 2010
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs36 \cf0 Vaserstein 2010 14 items
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3GeUgafFRgMC&pg=PA131&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=XIXlUImWIIfC0AGfqIHYBA&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Complex Analysis: Several Complex Variables and Connections With PDE Theory - Page 131}}\cf4 \ul , 144\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+Ebenfelt%22&sa=X&ei=XIXlUImWIIfC0AGfqIHYBA&ved=0CDoQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Peter Ebenfelt}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Norbert+Hungerb%C3%BChler%22&sa=X&ei=XIXlUImWIIfC0AGfqIHYBA&ved=0CDsQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Norbert Hungerb\'fchler}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joseph+J.+Kohn%22&sa=X&ei=XIXlUImWIIfC0AGfqIHYBA&ved=0CDwQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Joseph J. Kohn}} - 2010 \
Every null-homotopic holomorphic map f : X 
\f5 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  B = SLm (C) admits a continuous lifting F : X 
\f5 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  E for a suitably chosen N 
\f5 \uc0\u8712 
\f1  N (
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [31]), and the goal is to deform F to a holomorphic lifting G = (G1 ,...,G N ): X 
\f5 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  E. \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3GeUgafFRgMC&pg=PA131&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc2 Complex Analysis - Page 131}}\cf5 \ul \ulc2 , 143, 144\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Several Complex Variables and Connections With Pde Theory and Geometry
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+Ebenfelt%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CDIQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Peter Ebenfelt}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Norbert Hungerb\'fchler, Joseph J. Kohn - Springer 2010 - 340 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN3034600097, 9783034600095\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=cscBVMCykn8C&pg=PA317&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Collected Papers of John Milnor: Algebra - Page 317}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Willard+Milnor%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CDcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 John Willard Milnor}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Hyman Bass, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Willard+Milnor%22&q=inauthor:%22T.+Y.+Lam%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CDgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul T. Y. Lam}} - 2010 - 425 pages -\
Some nonsplit isotropic groups of classical types were treated by L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 . A proof of Serre's conjecture for general isotropic groups was given by Raghunathan 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=1bn-ME3yIDAC&pg=PA39&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Discrete Groups, Expanding Graphs and Invariant Measures - Page 3}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul 9, 192\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alexander+Lubotzky%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CD0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Alexander Lubotzky}}
\b0\fs24  - 2010 - 208 pages\
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jtWGzHk8fqgC&pg=PA160&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEEQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Finite fields: theory and applications : Ninth International Conference - Page 160}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Gary McGuire, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22American+Mathematical+Society%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CEIQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul American Mathematical Society}} - 2010 - 384 pages \
L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Quantum (abc)-theorems, J. Number Theory 81, 2000, pp. 351 \'96 358.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nwqCcgAACAAJ&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Ideals and Reality: Projective Modules and Number of Generators of }}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Ideals \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Friedrich+Ischebeck%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CEcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Friedrich Ischebeck}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Friedrich+Ischebeck%22&q=inauthor:%22Ravi+A.+Rao%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CEgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Ravi A. Rao}} - 2010 - 350 pages\
A study of projective modules and their connections with topological vector bundles in a form due to Vaserstein is included.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5BDX2NNsqR4C&pg=PA766&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Banach Space Theory: The Basis for Linear and Nonlinear Analysis - Page 766}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mari%C3%A1n+Fabian%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CEwQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Mari\'e1n Fabian}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mari%C3%A1n+Fabian%22&q=inauthor:%22Petr+Habala%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CE0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Petr Habala}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mari%C3%A1n+Fabian%22&q=inauthor:%22Petr+Habala%22&q=inauthor:%22Petr+Hajek%22&sa=X&ei=Aa-dTp_KAofi0QGA3qGCCQ&ved=0CE4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Petr Hajek}} - Springer 2010 - 820 pages \
Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Lx9dYMW70J0C&pg=PA34&dq=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Geometry of Cuts and Metrics - Page 34}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4  , 569
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
2010 \uc0\u8234 ISBN3642092438, 9783642092435\uc0\u8236 \
There is a vast literature on the topic of isometric embeddings among the various Lp-spaces; see, e.g., Wells and Williams [1975], Dor [1976], Ball [1987] , Lyubich and 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  [1993]. \
Lyubich and Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jtWGzHk8fqgC&pg=PA160&dq=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Finite Fields: Theory and Applications : Ninth International ... - Page 160}} \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Gary McGuire - 2010\
[9] L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Quantum (abc)-theorems, J. Number Theory 81, 2000, pp. 351 \'96 358. [10] T. Yamada, Unitary super perfect numbers, Math. Pannon. 19, 2008, pp. 37 \'96 47. Mathematics, University of Brest, U. M. R. 6205, CNRS, 6, Avenue 
\b ...\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YLRKAAAACAAJ&dq=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Introduction to Linear Algebra}}
\b\fs28  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lee+Johnson%22&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CFIQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Lee Johnson}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22R.+Dean+Riess%22&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CFMQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul R. Dean Riess}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jimmy+T.+Arnold%22&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CFQQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jimmy T. Arnold}} - 2010\
This book's flexible table of contents makes it suitable for students majoring in science and engineering as well as students who want an introduction to mathematical abstraction and logical reasoning.\
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XnJQAQAAIAAJ&q=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&dq=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CFcQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Encyclopedia of business information sources - Volume 2 - Page 553}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Virgil L. Burton - 2010 \
Leonid N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  and others. Prentice Hall. ' 2002. $8l.0O. Publisher: "...enables those with little mathematical background to learn to use linear programming in their respective fields (business. economics. operations research. etc.).".\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TkiJPgAACAAJ&dq=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CFsQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Linear Programming, Sensitivity Analysis and Related Topics}}
\b\fs28  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Marie-France+Derhy%22&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CF0Q9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Marie-France Derhy}}
\b0\fs24  - 2010 \
This book covers all aspects of linear programming from the two-dimensional LPs and their extension to higher dimensional LPs, through duality and sensitivity analysis and finally to the examination of commented software outputs.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Bq287vpSufQC&printsec=frontcover&dq=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CF8Q6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Information Technology: Project Management}}
\b\fs28  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kathy+Schwalbe%22&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CGEQ9AgwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Kathy Schwalbe}}
\b0\fs24  - 2010\
This text provides up-to-date information on how good project management and effective use of software can help you manage projects, especially information technology projects.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ZwWvcQAACAAJ&dq=Vaserstein+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CGUQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Pythagorean-Hodograph Curves: Algebra and Geometry Inseparable}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2010&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Rida+Farouki%22&sa=X&ei=8ILbUJKRBJC70AHliIHwAw&ved=0CGcQ9AgwCQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Rida Farouki}} - Springer 2010 \
This book offers a comprehensive and self-contained treatment of the mathematical theory of PH curves, including algorithms for their construction and examples of their practical applications.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN3642092438, 9783642092435\uc0\u8236  728 pp\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f0\fs30 \cf0 Wasserstein 2011  65 books\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QAUv9R6bJzwC&pg=PA268&dq=Wasserstein+norm+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ecrxUOcR5ITRAcaFgMAI&ved=0CFgQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ulc8 Handbook of Empirical Economics and Finance - Page 268}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Aman+Ullah%22&sa=X&ei=ecrxUOcR5ITRAcaFgMAI&ved=0CFoQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf8 \ul \ulc8 Aman Ullah}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+E.+A.+Giles%22&sa=X&ei=ecrxUOcR5ITRAcaFgMAI&ved=0CFsQ9AgwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \ul \ulc8 David E. A. Giles}} - 2011 \
In the case of 
\i Wasserstein
\i0 , the distance is defined in the Lj 
\i norm
\i0  and in the Mallows in the Li 
\i norm
\i0 . When considering Equation 10.34, D(hXl, fiXj) will be calculated by implementing the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  or Mallows distance. By using the definition 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/mostRecentIssue.jsp?punumber=6094293"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 \ulnone Image Processing (ICIP), 2011 18th IEEE International Conference on}}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 Date: 
\b0 11-14 Sept. 2011 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/search/searchresult.jsp?searchWithin=p_Authors:.QT.Rabin,%20J..QT.&newsearch=partialPref"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Rabin, J.}}\cf4 \ul  \cf0 \ulnone CMLA, ENS de Cachan, Cachan, France \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/search/searchresult.jsp?searchWithin=p_Authors:.QT.Peyre,%20G..QT.&newsearch=partialPref"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Peyre, G.}} 
\fs28 Wasserstein regularization of imaging problem 
\fs24 1541 - 1544
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ndRQRfLNwhwC&pg=PA370&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=CV3oUOm-E9DO0QG5yYF4&ved=0CDcQ6AEwATiCAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Studies In Classification, Data Analysis, and Knowledge Organization - Page 370}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Classification and Multivariate Analysis for Complex Data Structures
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1049&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bernard+Fichet%22&ei=CV3oUOm-E9DO0QG5yYF4&ved=0CDkQ9AgwATiCAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Bernard Fichet}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2011\uc0\u8236  473 pp \uc0\u8234 ISBN3642133126, 9783642133121\uc0\u8236  \
Irpino, A., Verde R., Lechevallier Y.: Dynamic clustering of histograms using 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric. In: Rizzi, A., Vichi, M. (eds.) 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fFRr9nlCtygC&pg=PA86&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Z0roUMK0Cce20QGLzYCYBw&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Energy Minimization Methods in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition - Page 74, 81, 86}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 8th International Conference, EMMCVPR 2011, St. Petersburg, Russia, July 25-27, 2011, Proceedings
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 We present comparisons of the un-normalized model (3), our new normalized model (5), CV and LBF models (12), using the 1-D 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GFE1vx2pynMC&pg=PA91&dq=wasserstein+space+OR+pseudo+OR+gradient&hl=en&sa=X&ei=S_DiUMn0DYa50QH68YFY&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Proceedings of the International Congress of Mathematicians 2010  }}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 (ICM 2010) (in 4 Volumes) - Vol. I:\uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=GFE1vx2pynMC&pg=PA91&dq=wasserstein+space+OR+pseudo+OR+gradient&hl=en&sa=X&ei=S_DiUMn0DYa50QH68YFY&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4  - Page 91}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 , 92\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Plenary Lectures and Ceremonies, Vols. II-IV: Invited Lectures
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Rajendra Bhatia, Arup Pal - 2011 \
In a study of nonlinear heat equations, F. Otto [38] defined a formal Riemannian structure on P2 (M) and interpreted these equations as 
\i gradient
\i0  flows on the 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  P2 (M) with this formal Riemannian structure.\
Wasserstein geodesic\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=r_2q2caH8PQC&pg=PA268&dq=Wasserstein+%09+Probabilistic+Approach+to+Geometry&hl=en&sa=X&ei=1OTiUJPMGvCu0AHi74DIDw&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Mathematical Foundations of Quantum Field Theory and Perturbative String Theory - Page 268}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Hisham Sati, Urs Schreiber - 2011\
In the \'93
\i probabilistic
\i0 \'94 
\i approach
\i0  (see a good review in [L], or original proofs in [LV], [St]) one uses the ideas of optimal transport (different point of view is presented in [AGS]). 
\b ...
\b0  \
More precisely the space P(X) carries a family Wp ,p \uc0\u8805  1 of the so-called 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics. 
\b ...
\b0  on C(X) discussed in the Introduction, thus making a connection with Connes's approach to noncommutative Riemannian 
\i geometry
\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QePT_IB8kOkC&pg=PA80&dq=Wasserstein+diffusion&hl=en&sa=X&ei=DDjgUOi4K8PG0QHN5oGYDQ&ved=0CFYQ6AEwBjhQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Nonlinear PDE\'92s and Applications: C.I.M.E. Summer School, Cetraro,, Italy - Page 80}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Stefano+Bianchini%22&ei=DDjgUOi4K8PG0QHN5oGYDQ&ved=0CFgQ9AgwBjhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Stefano Bianchini}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Eric+A.+Carlen%22&ei=DDjgUOi4K8PG0QHN5oGYDQ&ved=0CFkQ9AgwBjhQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Eric A. Carlen}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Alexander+Mielke%22&ei=DDjgUOi4K8PG0QHN5oGYDQ&ved=0CFoQ9AgwBjhQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Alexander Mielke}} - 2011\
Unlike the critical fast 
\i diffusion
\i0  equation that came discussed in Sect.2, this fast 
\i diffusion
\i0  equation is particularly nice: Both terms in the entropy are \'93displacement convex\'94 \'96 convex along geodesics in the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space \'96 and the second 
\b ...
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7STfuQAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=_DFk3b2BTN&sig=cMoWEbwhCVj4xseV3WERhoKc16g&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ZAsqUKWQDMrw0gHFwIHIBA&ved=0CFwQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Hamiltonian Systems and the Calculus of Differential Forms on the  Wasserstein space}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hwa+Kil+Kim%22&sa=X&ei=ZAsqUKWQDMrw0gHFwIHIBA&ved=0CF0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Hwa Kil Kim}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Proquest, Umi Dissertation Publishing, 2011\uc0\u8236  - 90 pages  \uc0\u8234 ISBN1244090794, 9781244090798\uc0\u8236 \
This thesis consists of two parts. In the first part, we study stability properties of Hamiltonian systems on the Wasserstein space. Let H be a Hamiltonian satisfying conditions imposed in [2]. We regularize H via Moreau-Yosida approximation to get Htau and denote by mutau a solution of system with the new Hamiltonian Htau. Suppose Htau converges to H as tau tends to zero. We show mutau converges to mu and mu is a solution of a Hamiltonian system which is corresponding to the Hamiltonian H. At the end of first part, we give a sufficient condition for the uniqueness of Hamiltonian systems. In the second part, we develop a general theory of differential forms on the Wasserstein space. Our main result is to prove an analogue of Green's theorem for 1-forms and show that every closed 1-form on the Wasserstein space is exact. If the Wasserstein space were a manifold in the classical sense, this result wouldn't be worthy of mention. Hence, the first cohomology group, in the sense of de Rham, vanishes.\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14120\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14000\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc5 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=bmy89K9VjHIC&pg=PA386&lpg=PA386&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=yWYV4FDTSU&sig=OUDR3UWXCzoUv3seXUvbEUNl6sA&hl=en&sa=X&ei=VQwqULTNMOXk0QG4w4HQCQ&ved=0CGAQ6AEwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ulc4 Wahrscheinlichkeitstheorie - Page 386}}\cf4 \ulc4 , 624 
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Achim+Klenke%22&ei=VQwqULTNMOXk0QG4w4HQCQ&ved=0CGEQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Achim Klenke}} - \uc0\u8234 2\uc0\u8236 011 - 624 pages\
F\'fcr zwei W-Ma\'dfe P und Q auf (E,B(E)) schreiben wir K(P,Q) C M\\\{E x E) f\'fcr die Menge der Kopplungen von P und Q. Wir k\'f6nnen dann einen Abstand, die so genannte 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Metrik, auf M.\\(E) definieren durch dw(P,Q):=mi(J 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 05 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Metrik 
\b \

\b0 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14120\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14000\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=z8Y3pwAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=WlUvaD8TgH&sig=xs-qEECmasS5hTRxWeIQXgm4Ahg&hl=en&sa=X&ei=xgwqUPWzFOTm0QGs54GAAQ&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Variational Pde-Based Image Segmentation and Inpainting with }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Applications to Computer Graphics \
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kang-Yu+Ni%22&ei=xgwqUPWzFOTm0QGs54GAAQ&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Kang-Yu Ni}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , \cf4 \ul  \cf0 \ulnone  \uc0\u8234 BiblioBazaar\uc0\u8236 , 2011 - 142 pages  \uc0\u8234 ISBN1243579633, 9781243579638\uc0\u8236 \

\itap2\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14120\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14000\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap2\pardeftab720
\cf0 This dissertation explores the applications of variational PDE models to image processing, computer vision, and computer graphics, and also to building efficient numerical algorithms and schemes. In particular, the areas of contributions are segmentation, inpainting, and matting. There are three separate topics in segmentation. The first is unsupervised segmentation, in which we propose and analyze a nonparametric region-based active contour model for segmenting cluttered scenes. The novelty is the use of the Wasserstein distance in segmentation,
\b\fs28 \nestcell \lastrow\nestrow
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Ee0lpwAACAAJ&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=f3ttMfaRCb&sig=I5QTtYCYX3JPbBFvAeUlBYs7CWY&hl=en&sa=X&ei=sw0qUN21NoOj6wHw1oCQCg&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBDgy"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Geometric Approach to Evolution Problems in Metric Spaces}}
\b0\fs24  : \uc0\u8234 Product Formulas in CAT(0) Spaces Fokker-Planck Equation Maximal Monotone Operators on Wasserstein Spaces\uc0\u8236 \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Igor+Stojkovi%22&ei=sw0qUN21NoOj6wHw1oCQCg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Igor Stojkovi}} - 2011 - 240 pages\
This PhD thesis contains four chapters where research material on a range of different topics is presented.\

\b\fs28 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5RTuWSqQX_YC&pg=PA19&dq=Wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDMQ6AEwAjiqAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc5 Partial Differential Equations and Spectral Theory - Page 19}}\cf2 \ul \ulc5  , 68\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=170&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1&q=inauthor:%22Michael+Demuth%22&ei=h9phTdKZK4HogQer9dn5AQ&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Michael Demuth}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Bert-Wolfgang Schulze, Ingo Witt - 2011 - 342 pages\
The 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  gradient flow of the Fisher information and the quantum drift-
\i diffusion
\i0  equation. Arch. Ration. Mech. Anal., 194:133\'96220, 2009. [55] J. Glimm. Solutions in the large for nonlinear hyperbolic systems of equations. Commun.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yZQfSHRTyFIC&pg=PA70&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CDwQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Aspects of Operator Algebras and Applications - Page 70}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://catalog2.loc.gov/vwebv/search?searchArg=UIMP-RSME%20Santalo%CC%81%20Summer%20School%20%282008%20:%20Universidad%20Internadional%20Mene%CC%81ndez%20Pelayo%29&searchCode=NAME%2B&searchType=1&recCount=100"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 UIMP-RSME Santal\'f3 Summer School (2008 : Universidad Internadional Men\'e9ndez Pelayo)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Pere+Ara%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CD0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Pere Ara}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Fernando+Lledo%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CD4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Fernando Lledo}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Francesc+Perera%22&sa=X&ei=hptjTdX2DMKSgQeb2KWMAg&ved=0CD8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Francesc Perera}} - 2011 - 168 pages ISBN \uc0\u8234 9780821849057\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dMKfo4K7OJYC&pg=PA363&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=TJ1jTbTjA4LagAely43bAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Computer Vision, Imaging and Computer Graphics: Theory and Applications  - Page 363}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  , 369\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 nternational Joint Conference, VISIGRAPP 2009, Lisboa, Portugal, February 5-8, 2009. Revised Selected Papers\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Alpeshkumar+Ranchordas%22&sa=X&ei=TJ1jTbTjA4LagAely43bAg&ved=0CEkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Alpeshkumar Ranchordas}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Joao Madeiras Pereira, H\'e9lder J. Ara\'fajo - 2011 - 369 pages\
Ni, K., Bresson, X., Chan, T., Esedoglu, S.: Local histogram based segmentation using the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance. In: Scale 
\b ...
\b0  Rousson, M., Brox, T., Deriche, R.: Active unsupervised texture segmentation on a 
\i diffusion
\i0  based feature space.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ToPU3XFV9gIC&pg=PA357&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=QJ5jTbT0E5DQgAfq_cCXAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Distributed Video Sensor Networks - Page 357}}\cf2 \ul , 358, 485
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=10&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Bir+Bhanu%22&ei=QJ5jTbT0E5DQgAfq_cCXAg&ved=0CDcQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Bir Bhanu}}, Chinya V. Ravishankar, Amit K. Roy-Chowdhury - Springer  2011 - 485 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1213.62027&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Zbl 1213.62027}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:chen.louis-h-y"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul Chen, Louis H. Y.}}
\b ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:goldstein.larry-joel"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Goldstein, Larry}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:shao.qi-man"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Shao, Qi-Man}}  Normal approximation by Stein's method.
\b0  (English)  Probability and Its Applications. Berlin: Springer. xii, 405~p. (2011). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*62E20"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul *62E20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:62-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 62-02}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:60-02"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 60-02}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:Thorsten%20Dickhaus"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Thorsten Dickhaus (Berlin)}}
\b\fs28 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth15680\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1140\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt40 \clpadl40 \clpadb40 \clpadr40 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14220\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt40 \clpadl160 \clpadb40 \clpadr40 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [BOOK] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=zXdT7pXY9EQC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=wasserstein&ots=_ieJv3HXvY&sig=boHp-MZ23o-RVaoh5GCjCHUjUaU"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Differential forms on \ulnone Wasserstein \ul space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems}} - Page 25\
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0807.1065"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 W Gangbo, HK Kim\'85 - 2011 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Gangbo&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=2808856"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2808856
\b0 \ul  }} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Gangbo, Wilfrid}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=934766"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Kim, Hwa Kil}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=656007"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Pacini, Tommaso}} Differential forms on Wasserstein space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Mem_Amer_Math_Soc"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Mem. Amer. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=291915"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 211 (2011), no. 993,}} vi+77 pp. ISBN: 978-0-8218-4939-2 (Reviewer: Koji Kikuchi) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=37K25,%2858B20,58D05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 37K25 (58B20 58D05)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3SkZbwubMDYC&pg=PA245&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=e3CdTo24Gcfe0QGWkLn6CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Seminar on Stochastic Analysis, Random Fields and Applications VI:  - Page 245}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://catalog2.loc.gov/vwebv/search?searchArg=Seminar%20on%20Stochastic%20Analysis,%20Random%20Fields,%20and%20Applications%20%286th%20:%202008%20:%20Centro%20Stefano%20Franscini,%20Ascona%29&searchCode=NAME%2B&searchType=1&recCount=100"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Centro Stefano Franscini, Ascona}}
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone  May 2008 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Robert C. Dalang, Marco Dozzi, Francesco Russo, editors.\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 Basel : Birkh\'e4user, 2011.\uc0\u8236  492pp\
ISBN	\uc0\u8234 9783034800204 (alk. paper)\uc0\u8236 	\uc0\u8234 3034800207 (alk. paper)\uc0\u8236 	\uc0\u8234 9783034800211 (ebk.)\uc0\u8236   \uc0\u8234 3034800215 (ebk.)\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 Functional Inequalities for the Wasserstein Dirichlet Form / W. Stannat\cf4 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=87M8AHxNRbkC&pg=PA394&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=e3CdTo24Gcfe0QGWkLn6CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Stochastic Optimization Methods in Finance and Energy - Page}} xii, 333, 353, 354, 357, 359, 360, 363, 368, 387, 388, 390, 392, 394, 397, 400, 401, 402, 406, 407, 414, 415, 474
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
New Financial Products and Energy Market Strategies\
Series: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springer.com/series/6161"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 International Series in Operations Research & Management Science}}, Vol. 163\
Bertocchi, Marida; Consigli, Giorgio; Dempster, Michael A. H. (Eds.) \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2011\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 ISBN1441995862, 9781441995865\uc0\u8236 \
2012, 2011, XXIII, 474 p. 133 illus., 65 in color.
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fFRr9nlCtygC&pg=PA81&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=e3CdTo24Gcfe0QGWkLn6CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Energy Minimazation Methods in Computer Vision and Pattern}} \cf0 \ulnone Recognition{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fFRr9nlCtygC&pg=PA81&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=e3CdTo24Gcfe0QGWkLn6CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul  - Page 81}}\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Yuri+Boykov%22&sa=X&ei=e3CdTo24Gcfe0QGWkLn6CA&ved=0CEMQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Yuri Boykov}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Yuri+Boykov%22&q=inauthor:%22Victor+Lempitsky%22&sa=X&ei=e3CdTo24Gcfe0QGWkLn6CA&ved=0CEQQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Victor Lempitsky}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Yuri+Boykov%22&q=inauthor:%22Victor+Lempitsky%22&q=inauthor:%22Frank+R.+Schmidt%22&sa=X&ei=e3CdTo24Gcfe0QGWkLn6CA&ved=0CEUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Frank R. Schmidt}} - 2011 - 450 pages\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein distance\cf5 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=pAHSZwEACAAJ&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=5HKdTom9G8P20gH8msWHCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 Passing to the limit in a 
\i \ulnone Wasserstein
\i0 \ul  gradient flow: from }}\cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Diffusion to Reaction\uc0\u8236   \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Preprint+By+Weierstra%C3%9F-Institut+f%C3%BCr+Angewandte+Analysis+und+Stochastik+Berlin%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=2"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Issue 1593 of Preprint}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Weierstra%C3%9F-Institut+f%C3%BCr+Angewandte+Analysis+und+Stochastik+Berlin%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=2"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \uc0\u8234 Weierstra\'df-Institut f\'fcr Angewandte Analysis und Stochastik Berlin}}\cf4  \cf0 \uc0\u8234 PublisherWIAS, 2011 32 pages\uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=y2CrI3vblpUC&pg=PA213&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=5HKdTom9G8P20gH8msWHCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Complex Analysis and Dynamical Systems IV: General Relativity, }}\uc0\u8234  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=y2CrI3vblpUC&pg=PA213&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=5HKdTom9G8P20gH8msWHCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236  - Page 213}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Mark Agranovsky, Matania Ben-Artzi, Greg Galloway - 2011 - 284 pages \
The 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  P2 (X) is defined as (3.4) P2(X) = \{ \uc0\u956  
\f5 \uc0\u8712 
\f1  P(X) 
\f11 \uc0\u8739 
\f1  
\f11 \uc0\u8739 
\f1  \uc0\u8747  X d(\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=uuGqaYm2kU0C&pg=PA49&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=i3OdTsqzIqTd0QGj8tGICQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC8Q6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Random Finite Sets for Robot Mapping and SLAM:  - Page 49}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 New Concepts in Autonomous Robotic Map Representations
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Stephen+Mullane%22&ei=i3OdTsqzIqTd0QGj8tGICQ&ved=0CDAQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 John Stephen Mullane}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Stephen+Mullane%22&q=inauthor:%22Ba-Ngu+Vo%22&ei=i3OdTsqzIqTd0QGj8tGICQ&ved=0CDEQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Ba-Ngu Vo}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Stephen+Mullane%22&q=inauthor:%22Ba-Ngu+Vo%22&q=inauthor:%22Martin+David+Adams%22&ei=i3OdTsqzIqTd0QGj8tGICQ&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Martin David Adams}} - 2011 - 148 pages \
Wasserstein construction, Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9Eii0wZFJDMC&pg=PA41&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=i3OdTsqzIqTd0QGj8tGICQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Markov Processes, Semigroups and Generators - Page 41}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul , 42, 240, 430\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vassili+N.+Kolokoltsov%22&ei=i3OdTsqzIqTd0QGj8tGICQ&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Vassili N. Kolokoltsov}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 430 pages\
Wasserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ndRQRfLNwhwC&pg=PA370&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=DHSdTrmfBoXu0gGGttCkCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC8Q6AEwADge"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 Classification and Multivariate Analysis for Complex Data Structures - Page 370}}  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bernard+Fichet%22&ei=DHSdTrmfBoXu0gGGttCkCQ&ved=0CDAQ9Ag4Hg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Bernard Fichet}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Domenico Piccolo, Rosanna Verde - 2011 - 473 pages \
Wasserstein
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=So8rPp3QLG4C&pg=PA256&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=mnSdTrXKM6n00gHN5fD7CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAzgy"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Computer Analysis of Images and Patterns:  Part 1 - Page 256}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 14th International Conference, CAIP 2011, Seville, Spain, August 29-31, 2011, Proceedings
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Ainhoa Berciano, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22VARIOS+AUTORES%22&ei=mnSdTrXKM6n00gHN5fD7CA&ved=0CD8Q9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul VARIOS AUTORES}}, Daniel Diaz-Pernil - 2011 - 611 pages -\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vSXvHTQ07UsC&pg=PA490&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=mnSdTrXKM6n00gHN5fD7CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBjgy"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Advances in Swarm Intelligence: Part 2 - Page 490}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Second International Conference, ICSI 2011, Chongqing, China, June 12-15, 2011, Proceedings
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Ying Tan, Yuhui Shi, Yi Chai - 2011 - 587 pages -\
Wasserstein distances\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=eGlaRrbbo9cC&pg=PA358&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=D3WdTurTBofe0QHe3pDFCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBTg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Cellular and Biomolecular Mechanics and Mechanobiology - Page 358}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Amit+Gefen%22&ei=D3WdTurTBofe0QHe3pDFCQ&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4PA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Amit Gefen}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 560 pages \
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ZcWTrKBeT-EC&pg=PA2&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=SHWdTuChJ-GJ0QGX-uH7CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAzhG"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Q-Valued Functions Revisited - Page 2}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  , 83\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Camillo+De+Lellis%22&ei=SHWdTuChJ-GJ0QGX-uH7CA&ved=0CEMQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Camillo De Lellis}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Camillo+De+Lellis%22&q=inauthor:%22Emanuele+Nunzio+Spadaro%22&ei=SHWdTuChJ-GJ0QGX-uH7CA&ved=0CEQQ9Ag4Rg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Emanuele Nunzio Spadaro}} - 2011 - 79 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5RTuWSqQX_YC&pg=PA19&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=i3WdTo2SJabk0QG08uCSDg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEQQ6AEwBDhQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Partial Differential Equations and Spectral Theory - Page 19}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul , 68\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michael+Demuth%22&ei=i3WdTo2SJabk0QG08uCSDg&ved=0CEUQ9Ag4UA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Michael Demuth}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Bert-Wolfgang Schulze, Ingo Witt - 2011 - 341 pages\
Wasserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=v8g6_N1E-tYC&pg=PT258&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=wnWdTsqZBaTs0gHxgpS1CQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzha"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Video Tracking: Theory and Practice}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Emilio+Maggio%22&ei=wnWdTsqZBaTs0gHxgpS1CQ&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Emilio Maggio}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Emilio+Maggio%22&q=inauthor:%22Andrea+Cavallaro%22&ei=wnWdTsqZBaTs0gHxgpS1CQ&ved=0CEIQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Andrea Cavallaro}} - 2011 - 292 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein
\i0  distance is an evaluation metric for multi-target algorithms and has been used to evaluate trackers based on the RFS framework [\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=qizrXkh1LrkC&pg=PA203&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=M3adToBEgtjRAa-a_KYJ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBDh4"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Wiener Chaos: Moments, Cumulants and Diagrams: A Survey with computer implementation - Page 203}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Giovanni+Peccati%22&ei=M3adToBEgtjRAa-a_KYJ&ved=0CEYQ9Ag4eA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Giovanni Peccati}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Giovanni+Peccati%22&q=inauthor:%22Murad+S.+Taqqu%22&ei=M3adToBEgtjRAa-a_KYJ&ved=0CEcQ9Ag4eA"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Murad S. Taqqu}} - 2011 - 200 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nAa7PCTIBLkC&pg=PA693&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=vHadTpiGKubn0QGq7dWOCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAziWAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Probability for Statistics and Machine Learning:  - Page 506, 693}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul , 763, 771, 779\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Fundamentals and Advanced Topics\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Anirban+DasGupta%22&ei=vHadTpiGKubn0QGq7dWOCQ&ved=0CEAQ9Ag4lgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Anirban DasGupta}}
\b0\fs24  - 2011 - 641 pages\
Wasserstein metric
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=9cKhJJ0ZZawC&pg=PA266&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=EnedTuCrDerf0QGS0sifCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC8Q6AEwADiqAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Hyperfinite Dirichlet Forms and Stochastic Processes - Page 266}}\cf5 \ul , 276, 277\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Albeverio%22&ei=EnedTuCrDerf0QGS0sifCQ&ved=0CDAQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Sergio Albeverio}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Albeverio%22&q=inauthor:%22Ruzong+Fan%22&ei=EnedTuCrDerf0QGS0sifCQ&ved=0CDEQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Ruzong Fan}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Sergio+Albeverio%22&q=inauthor:%22Ruzong+Fan%22&q=inauthor:%22Frederik+Herzberg%22&ei=EnedTuCrDerf0QGS0sifCQ&ved=0CDIQ9Ag4qgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Frederik Herzberg}} - 2011 - 284 pages\
Entropic measure and 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  diffusion.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=MtMvfvHtY9cC&pg=PA86&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=WnedToukFYjd0QH61tWqCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CC8Q6AEwADi0AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Rearranging Dyson-Schwinger Equations - Page 86}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Karen+Yeats%22&ei=WnedToukFYjd0QH61tWqCQ&ved=0CDAQ9Ag4tAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Karen Yeats}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 82 pages \
Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=BanVYMijGS4C&pg=PA157&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=pnedTrGuEujX0QGP4K37CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBTi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul On Systems of Equations Over Free Partially Commutative Groups - Page 157}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Montserrat+Casals-Ruiz%22&ei=pnedTrGuEujX0QGP4K37CA&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Montserrat Casals-Ruiz}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Montserrat+Casals-Ruiz%22&q=inauthor:%22Ilya+Kazachkov%22&ei=pnedTrGuEujX0QGP4K37CA&ved=0CEoQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Ilya Kazachkov}} - 2011 - 153 pages \
Wasserstein space
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QiGOWCmXuD4C&pg=PA84&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=pnedTrGuEujX0QGP4K37CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CE4Q6AEwBji-AQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Positive Definiteness of Functions With Applications to Operator Norm Inequalities - Page 84}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hideki+Kosaki%22&ei=pnedTrGuEujX0QGP4K37CA&ved=0CE8Q9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Hideki Kosaki}}
\b0\fs24  - 2011 - 80 pages\
Wasserstein space
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nZVzCo5-D1AC&pg=PA242&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=pnedTrGuEujX0QGP4K37CA&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBzi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Dynamics, Games and Science, in Honour of Maricio Peixoto and David Rand - Page 242}}\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Conference Dyna 2008, September 8-12, 2008, Universidade Do Minho, Braga, Portugal\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Maur%C3%ADcio+Matos+Peixoto%22&ei=pnedTrGuEujX0QGP4K37CA&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Maur\'edcio Matos Peixoto}}
\b0\fs24 , Alberto Adrego Pinto, David A. J. Rand - 2011 - 830 pages
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Wasserstein metric\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=cunk8luTuAsC&pg=PA175&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CDgQ6AEwAjjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Random perturbation of PDEs and fluid dynamic models:  - Page 166, 175}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 \'c9cole D'\'e9t\'e9 de Probabilit\'e9s de Saint-Flour XL-2010
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Franco+Flandoli%22&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Franco Flandoli}}
\b0\fs24  - 2011 - 176 pages\
Wasserstein distance, Wasserstein control
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QVPTkWRD29MC&pg=PA189&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBTjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Iwasawa Theory, Projective Modules, and Modular Representations - Page 189}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ralph+Greenberg%22&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&ved=0CEoQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Ralph Greenberg}}
\b0\fs24  - 2011 - 185 pages \
Wasserstein space
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LQ8c9QStZC8C&pg=PA72&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBzjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Valuations and Differential Galois Groups - Page 72}}\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Guillaume+Duval%22&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Guillaume Duval}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 68 pages\
Wasserstein space
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=64u_Mx8ew2QC&pg=PA137&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=9&ved=0CFgQ6AEwCDjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Two Kinds of Derived Categories, Koszul Duality, and 
\fs30 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Comodule-Contramodule Correspondence
\fs48 \uc0\u8236  
\fs28 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 - Page 137 }}\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Leonid+Positselski%22&ei=I3idTq_HAcfY0QG-14GzCQ&ved=0CFkQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Leonid Positselski}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 133 pages {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Memoirs+of+the+American+Mathematical+Society+Series%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=5"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf8 \uc0\u8234 Memoirs of the American Mathematical Society Series}}
\i \cf8  
\i0 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821852965, 9780821852965\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Wasserstein space
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=x-xv0txL8sgC&pg=PA103&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Supported Blow-Up and Prescribed Scalar Curvature on Sn - Page 103}} \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Man+Chun+Leung%22&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&ved=0CEEQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Man Chun Leung}}
\b0\fs24  - 2011 - 99 pages -\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=AeIK6GRGo7UC&pg=PA109&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBDjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Iterated Function Systems, Moments, and Transformations of Infinite Matrices - Page 109}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Palle+E.+T.+Jorgensen%22&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&ved=0CEYQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Palle E. T. Jorgensen}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Palle+E.+T.+Jorgensen%22&q=inauthor:%22Keri+A.+Kornelson%22&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&ved=0CEcQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Keri A. Kornelson}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Palle+E.+T.+Jorgensen%22&q=inauthor:%22Keri+A.+Kornelson%22&q=inauthor:%22Karen+L.+Shuman%22&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&ved=0CEgQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Karen L. Shuman}} - 2011 - 105 pages\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 ations of Infinite Matrices\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=bibliogroup:%22Memoirs+of+the+American+Mathematical+Society+Series%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=6"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf8 \uc0\u8234 Memoirs of the American Mathematical Society Series}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?tbo=p&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Memoirs+of+the+American+Mathematical+Society+Series%22&source=gbs_metadata_r&cad=6"}}{\fldrslt \cf8 \uc0\u8234 Memoirs of the American Mathematical Society Series}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul  \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821852485, 9780821852484\uc0\u8236 \
\cf5 \ul \ulc5 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=721LFDbwnfsC&pg=PA108&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=6&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBTjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 Axes in Outer Space - Page 108}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michael+Handel%22&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&ved=0CE0Q9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Michael Handel}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Michael+Handel%22&q=inauthor:%22Lee+Mosher%22&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&ved=0CE4Q9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Lee Mosher}} - 2011 - 104 pages -\
Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nGWFLNryqcAC&pg=PA121&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBjjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Multicurves and Equivariant Cohomology - Page 121}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22N.+P.+Strickland%22&ei=3nidTuqrJ8nr0gGC6KGhCQ&ved=0CFMQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 N. P. Strickland}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 117 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=FWoZEm29ko8C&pg=PA155&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&ei=jHmdTrbjCsnt0gGvgsGcCQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CFwQ6AEwCTjcAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Fonction Z\'eata des Hauteurs des Vari\'e9t\'e9s Toriques non D\'e9ploy\'e9es - Page 155}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22David+Bourqui%22&ei=jHmdTrbjCsnt0gGvgsGcCQ&ved=0CF0Q9Ag43AE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 David Bourqui}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 151 pages \
\
Zbl 05954668           Franek, Marzena Magdalene          Variational methods using transport metrics and applications. \
(English)  M\'fcnster: Univ. M\'fcnster, Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Fakult\'e4t, Fachbereich Mathematik und Informatik (Diss.). 183 p. (2011).\
\
Zbl 1213.62027       Chen, Louis H. Y.;           Goldstein, Larry;                  Shao, Qi-Man            \
Normal approximation by Stein's method. (English)   Probability and Its Applications. Berlin: Springer (ISBN 978-3-642-15006-7/hbk; 978-3-642-15007-4/ebook). xii, 405 p.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3SkZbwubMDYC&pg=PA245&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=N7jkTvqFC6f50gHhuuH1BQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Seminar on Stochastic Analysis, Random Fields and Applications VI: ... - Page 245}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Robert+Dalang%22&sa=X&ei=N7jkTvqFC6f50gHhuuH1BQ&ved=0CDUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Robert Dalang}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Marco Dozzi, Francesco Russo - 2011 - 492 pages\
Keywords. 
\i Wasserstein diffusion
\i0 , l\
We give an alternative representation of the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Dirichlet form that was introduced by von Renesse and Sturm 
\b ...
\b0  definition of the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  Dirichlet form let us first recall an alternative description of the 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  over I that 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=HrtgjvzXBVwC&pg=PA72&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=kr3kTu3cCMrw0gGgjLTCBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGgQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Ergodic Control of Diffusion Processes - Page 72}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 322\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone books.google.com{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ari+Arapostathis%22&sa=X&ei=kr3kTu3cCMrw0gGgjLTCBQ&ved=0CGkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\i0 \cf2 \ul Ari Arapostathis}}
\i0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ari+Arapostathis%22&q=inauthor:%22Vivek+S.+Borkar%22&sa=X&ei=kr3kTu3cCMrw0gGgjLTCBQ&ved=0CGoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Vivek S. Borkar}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ari+Arapostathis%22&q=inauthor:%22Vivek+S.+Borkar%22&q=inauthor:%22Mrinal+K.+Ghosh%22&sa=X&ei=kr3kTu3cCMrw0gGgjLTCBQ&ved=0CGsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Mrinal K. Ghosh}} - 2011 - 335 pages\

\i Wasserstein
\i0\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=13_1LebeiDYC&pg=PA109&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Quasi-Actions on Trees II: Finite Depth Bass-Serre Trees - Page 109}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lee+Mosher%22&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&ved=0CFQQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Lee Mosher}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lee+Mosher%22&q=inauthor:%22Michah+Sageev%22&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&ved=0CFUQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Michah Sageev}} - 2011 - 105 pages
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vKscdD6F7zkC&pg=PA122&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=8&ved=0CFkQ6AEwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Parabolic Systems with Polynomial Growth and Regularity - Page 122}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Duzaar%2C&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2866816"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2866816}}  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=61040"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Duzaar, Frank}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=633410"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Mingione, Giuseppe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=189144"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Steffen, Klaus}} Parabolic systems with polynomial growth and regularity. \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Mem_Amer_Math_Soc"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Mem. Amer. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=296714"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 214 (2011), no. 1005,}} x+118 pp. ISBN: 978-0-8218-4967-5 (Reviewer: Luca Lorenzi) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K40,%2835B65,35D30,35K59,35K92%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 35K40 (35B65 35D30 35K59 35K92)}}\
forms on 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=_V76iO5UXW4C&pg=PA316&dq=wasserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=10&ved=0CGcQ6AEwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Numerical Analysis of Multiscale Computations:  - Page 316}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Proceedings of a Winter Workshop At the Banff International Research Station 2009
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bj%C3%B6rn+Engquist%22&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&ved=0CGgQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Bj\'f6rn Engquist}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bj%C3%B6rn+Engquist%22&q=inauthor:%22Olof+Runborg%22&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&ved=0CGkQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Olof Runborg}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1233&bih=826&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bj%C3%B6rn+Engquist%22&q=inauthor:%22Olof+Runborg%22&q=inauthor:%22Yen-Hsi+Richard+Tsai%22&ei=1b7kTuX0Osji0QGP7cDjBQ&ved=0CGoQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Yen-Hsi Richard Tsai}} - 2011 - 420 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=87M8AHxNRbkC&pg=PA394&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=m0cDT7ypOIf50gH02KTSAg&ved=0CD4Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Stochastic Optimization Methods in Finance and Energy:  - Page 394}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 New Financial Products and Energy Market Strategies\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Giorgio+Consigli%22&sa=X&ei=m0cDT7ypOIf50gH02KTSAg&ved=0CD8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Giorgio Consigli}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Giorgio+Consigli%22&q=inauthor:%22Marida+Ida+Bertocchi%22&sa=X&ei=m0cDT7ypOIf50gH02KTSAg&ved=0CEAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Marida Ida Bertocchi}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Giorgio+Consigli%22&q=inauthor:%22Marida+Ida+Bertocchi%22&q=inauthor:%22Michael+A.+H.+Dempster%22&sa=X&ei=m0cDT7ypOIf50gH02KTSAg&ved=0CEEQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Michael A. H. Dempster}} - 2011 - 474 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=DOKJGnNh9HgC&pg=PA261&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gkkDT-7YLYTw0gHuyvDqAg&ved=0CEkQ6AEwBDgy"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Fundamentals of Object Tracking - Page 261}}\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Subhash+Challa%22&ei=gkkDT-7YLYTw0gHuyvDqAg&ved=0CEoQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Subhash Challa}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Subhash+Challa%22&q=inauthor:%22Mark+R.+Morelande%22&ei=gkkDT-7YLYTw0gHuyvDqAg&ved=0CEsQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Mark R. Morelande}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Subhash+Challa%22&q=inauthor:%22Mark+R.+Morelande%22&q=inauthor:%22Darko+Mu%C5%A1icki%22&ei=gkkDT-7YLYTw0gHuyvDqAg&ved=0CEwQ9Ag4Mg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Darko Mu\'9aicki}} - 2011 - 392 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=nAa7PCTIBLkC&pg=PA782&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=20oDT6-pJsrZ0QGXgLWZDg&ved=0CF4Q6AEwBzha"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Probability for Statistics and Machine Learning:  - Page 506, 693, 782}}\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Fundamentals and Advanced Topics\uc0\u8236 \'a0
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Anirban+DasGupta%22&ei=20oDT6-pJsrZ0QGXgLWZDg&ved=0CF8Q9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Anirban DasGupta}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 782 pages\
Wasserstein metric\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=FRwjdWNKgSgC&pg=PA123&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=LEsDT7-aMIX40gGmuvWXAg&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADhk"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Technological Innovation for Sustainability:  - Page 123}}\cf5 \ul  
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Second IFIP WG 5.5/SOCOLNET Doctoral Conference on Computing, Electrical and Industrial Systems, DoCEIS 2011, Costa de Caparica, Portugal, February 22-24, 2011, Proceedings
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Luis+M.+Camarinha-Matos%22&ei=LEsDT7-aMIX40gGmuvWXAg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4ZA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Luis M. Camarinha-Matos}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 615 page\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5wUXqf_hwCsC&pg=PA10&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=w1kDT7XiIqnA0AHT4MSkAg&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBDi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul On asymptotically optimal source coding and simulation of }}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  
\b0 \cf0 \ulnone Stationary Sources
\b\fs48  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5wUXqf_hwCsC&pg=PA10&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=w1kDT7XiIqnA0AHT4MSkAg&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBDi-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf5 \ul - Page 10}}
\fs28 \cf5 \ul   \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Zhenyu+Mao%22&ei=w1kDT7XiIqnA0AHT4MSkAg&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Zhenyu Mao}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Zhenyu+Mao%22&q=inauthor:%22Stanford+University.+Dept.+of+Electrical+Engineering%22&ei=w1kDT7XiIqnA0AHT4MSkAg&ved=0CE4Q9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Stanford University. Dept. of Electrical Engineering}} - 201\
It is the extension to general distortion measures of Ornstein's d (d-bar) distance (which is based on the the Hamming distortion) or, equivalently, \
the extension of the classic Monge/Kantorovich/Wasserstein (or 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 ) distance [43, 31, 61] 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=fbs_Dg0UnywC&pg=PA277&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Z1oDT4juEuGO0gHCv8mSAg&ved=0CGUQ6AEwCTjIAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Advances in Computer Science, Environment, Ecoinformatics, and Education: Part 1 - Page 277}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Song+Lin%22&ei=Z1oDT4juEuGO0gHCv8mSAg&ved=0CGYQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt Song Lin}}\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Song+Lin%22&q=inauthor:%22Xiong+Huang%22&ei=Z1oDT4juEuGO0gHCv8mSAg&ved=0CGcQ9Ag4yAE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Xiong Huang}} - 2011 - 664 pages\
Wasserstein distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=H6WWheMN_PcC&pg=PA15&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=yloDT_nyKOLW0QGw1tSAAg&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADjSAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Permutations with interval restrictions - Page 15}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Olena+Bormashenko%22&ei=yloDT_nyKOLW0QGw1tSAAg&ved=0CDMQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Olena Bormashenko}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Olena+Bormashenko%22&q=inauthor:%22Stanford+University.+Dept.+of+Mathematics%22&ei=yloDT_nyKOLW0QGw1tSAAg&ved=0CDQQ9Ag40gE"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Stanford University. Dept. of Mathematics}} - 2011\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  has utilized the idea of curvature, which requires contraction of the transportation metric (also known as the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance.) I\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=j6HPyxvPFcsC&pg=PA327&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=h1sDT6nCJYL10gGwxaWoAg&ved=0CGYQ6AEwCTjmAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Networking 2011: Part 2 - Page 327}}\cf5 \ul   
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 10th International IFIP TC 6 Networking Conference, Valencia, Spain, May 9-13, 2011, Proceedings
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Jordi Domingo-Pascual, Pietro Manzoni, Sergio Palazzo - 2011 - 381 pages\
Wasserstein Distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QAdL6D-9olcC&pg=PA82&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CDgQ6AEwATiiAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Jumping Numbers of a Simple Complete Ideal in a Two-Dimensional Regular Local Ring - Page 82}}\cf5 \ul   \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Tarmo+J%C3%A4rvilehto%22&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag4ogI"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Tarmo J\'e4rvilehto}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 78 pages  AMS Mem\
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LXhNyEdX_KsC&pg=PA101&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CEwQ6AEwBDiiAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul On the Algebraic Foundation of Bounded Cohomology - Page 101}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Theo+B%C3%BChler%22&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CE0Q9Ag4ogI"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Theo B\'fchler}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - 97 page\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Wasserstein space\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7OVGgHDivHwC&pg=PA82&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CGoQ6AEwCTiiAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Hardy Spaces Associated to Non-Negative Self-Adjoint Operators }}
\fs24 \uc0\u8234 Satisfying Davies-Gaffney Estimates{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7OVGgHDivHwC&pg=PA82&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CGoQ6AEwCTiiAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236  - Page 82}}
\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Steve+Hofmann%22&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CGsQ9Ag4ogI"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Steve Hofmann}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Steve+Hofmann%22&q=inauthor:%22Guozhen+Lu%22&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CGwQ9Ag4ogI"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Guozhen Lu}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Steve+Hofmann%22&q=inauthor:%22Guozhen+Lu%22&q=inauthor:%22Dorina+Mitrea%22&ei=J10DT5eHAurV0QGY6NDiDQ&ved=0CG0Q9Ag4ogI"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Dorina Mitrea}} - AMS  2011 - 78 pages \uc0\u8234 ISBN0821852388, 9780821852385\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LRuuwLUO10EC&pg=PA90&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Pl4DT5XnC4PY0QHQrvzVBA&ved=0CDkQ6AEwATisAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Spectral methods for isometric shape matching and symmetry detection - Page 90}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Maksims+Ovsjanikovs%22&ei=Pl4DT5XnC4PY0QHQrvzVBA&ved=0CDoQ9Ag4rAI"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Maksims Ovsjanikovs}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Maksims+Ovsjanikovs%22&q=inauthor:%22Stanford+University.+Institute+for+Computational+and+Mathematical+Engineering%22&ei=Pl4DT5XnC4PY0QHQrvzVBA&ved=0CDsQ9Ag4rAI"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Stanford University. Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering}} - \uc0\u8234 Stanford University, 2011\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b\fs30 \cf0 Vaserstein 2011 12 items    \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5ibv2wzZ2IQC&pg=PA312&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b\fs28 \cf5 Stein
\i0 \ul  Manifolds and Holomorphic Mappings:  - Page 312}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 The Homotopy Principle In Complex Analysis\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (Google eBook)
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \ulc2 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Franc+Forstneric%22&sa=X&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&ved=0CDIQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Franc Forstneric}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011 - \uc0\u8234 Springer\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Jan 1, 2011\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 489 pages\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 3642222501, 9783642222504\uc0\u8236 \
In this section we outline the solution to Gromov's 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  problem obtained by Ivarsson and Kutzschebauch [272, 273].
\b\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/NX6H33M206334653.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Functional inequalities for the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Dirichlet Form}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www3.mathematik.tu-darmstadt.de/fileadmin/home/users/54/Proceeding_Ascona.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from tu-darmstadt.de}}
\b0\fs20 W  Stannat - Seminar on Stochastic Analysis, Random Fields and \'85, 2011 - Springer 
\fs24 ISBN 978-3-0348-0020-4\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280

\b\fs26 \cf0 Abstract 
\b0\fs24 We give an alternative representation of the Wasserstein Dirichlet form that was introduced by von Renesse and Sturm in [7].
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=jrnxlUqw2s8C&pg=PA487&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Computer Vision - ACCV 2010:    Part 2 - Page 487}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 10th Asian Conference on Computer Vision, Queenstown, New Zealand, November 8-12, 2010, Revised Selected Papers
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ron+Kimmel%22&sa=X&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&ved=0CDcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Ron Kimmel}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ron+Kimmel%22&q=inauthor:%22Reinhard+Klette%22&sa=X&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&ved=0CDgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Reinhard Klette}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ron+Kimmel%22&q=inauthor:%22Reinhard+Klette%22&q=inauthor:%22Akihiro+Sugimoto%22&sa=X&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&ved=0CDkQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Akihiro Sugimoto}} - \uc0\u8234 Springer\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 May 3, 2011\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 726 pages\uc0\u8236  LNCS 6492-6495\
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3vMCnvMH-hkC&pg=PA466&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Gibbs Measures and Phase Transitions - Page 466}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul , 644\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hans-Otto+Georgii%22&sa=X&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Hans-Otto Georgii}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Walter de Gruyter\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 May 13, 2011\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 545 pages\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 ISBN3110250292, 9783110250299\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=YWBZL-yerEUC&pg=PA426&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=4&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Rings Related to Stable Range Conditions - Page 426}}
\f1\b\fs28  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Huanyin+Chen%22&sa=X&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&ved=0CEMQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 \ul Huanyin Chen}}
\b0\fs24  - \uc0\u8234 World Scientific, 2011\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 ISBN9814329711, 9789814329712\uc0\u8236 \
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=yZQfSHRTyFIC&pg=PA70&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=5&ved=0CEcQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul Aspects of operator algebras and applications:  - Page 70}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 UIMP-RSME Llu\'eds A. Santal\'f3 Summer School, Universidad Internacional Men\'e9ndez Pelayo, Santander, Spain, July 21-25, 2008\uc0\u8236 \'a0\uc0\u8234 (
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Pere Ara, Fernando Lledo, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Francesc+Perera%22&sa=X&ei=t62dTtmNKaX10gH5tL3ECQ&ved=0CEgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Francesc Perera}} - 2011 - 168 pages \
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=g7F_PWG7QccC&pg=PA112&dq=vaserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=L8DkTvidIqfX0QHMlvXZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CDkQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Perspectives on Noncommutative Geometry - Page 112}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Masoud+Khalkhali%22&sa=X&ei=L8DkTvidIqfX0QHMlvXZBQ&ved=0CDoQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Masoud Khalkhali}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Masoud+Khalkhali%22&q=inauthor:%22Guoliang+Yu%22&sa=X&ei=L8DkTvidIqfX0QHMlvXZBQ&ved=0CDsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Guoliang Yu}} - 2011 - 163 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3SWNZaDM6iMC&pg=PA228&dq=vaserstein+subject:%22mathematics%22&hl=en&ei=L8DkTvidIqfX0QHMlvXZBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=3&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Rational Number Theory in the 20th Century: From PNT to FLT - Page 228}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Wladyslaw+Narkiewicz%22&sa=X&ei=L8DkTvidIqfX0QHMlvXZBQ&ved=0CEAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul Wladyslaw Narkiewicz}}
\b0\fs24  - 2011 - 654 pages\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=udcvZly8ZE8C&pg=PT682&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Z0YDT-jqFonv0gH59ZyHAg&ved=0CFMQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Number Theory, Analysis and Geometry: In Memory of Serge Lang}}
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul \ulc5  - Page 321, 346, 347, 352, \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Dorian Goldfeld, Jay Jorgenson, Peter Jones - 2011 - 704 pages \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=g7F_PWG7QccC&pg=PA112&lpg=PA112&dq=vaserstein&source=bl&ots=vEz-vODtY0&sig=pICXbsuFExPpgcqv2FwnCcLrzAE&hl=en&sa=X&ei=yhUqUK2mJ-rH6AHs0ICYBQ&ved=0CDwQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Perspectives on Noncommutative Geometry - Page 108. 109, 110, 112}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4  , 113, 115, 116\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Masoud+Khalkhali%22&ei=yhUqUK2mJ-rH6AHs0ICYBQ&ved=0CD0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Masoud Khalkhali}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Guoliang Yu - 2011 - 163 pages \
Vaserstein\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=IE1ntkuVdGgC&pg=PA131&lpg=PA131&dq=vaserstein&source=bl&ots=bnbCflQ22_&sig=YFRSHk1i1IXbGmHPSnxTHr65BfE&hl=en&sa=X&ei=eRYqUOvbNaK36wHK0YDoCw&ved=0CEQQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Non-Abelian Fundamental Groups and Iwasawa Theory - Page 114, 1310 131}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+Coates%22&sa=X&ei=eRYqUOvbNaK36wHK0YDoCw&ved=0CEUQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 John Coates}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , Minhyong Kim, Florian Pop - 2011 - 320 pages \
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5BDX2NNsqR4C&pg=PA766&dq=Vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=rMrEUL2sManY0QHboYAY&ved=0CEIQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Banach Space Theory: The Basis for Linear and Nonlinear Analysis - Page 766}} \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mari%C3%A1n+Fabian%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Mari\'e1n Fabian}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mari%C3%A1n+J.+Fabian%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Mari\'e1n J. Fabian}} - 2011\
J. Luke\'9a and J. Mal\'fd, Measure and integral, Matfyzpress, Prague 1994. Y. Lyubich and L. N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Isometric embeddings between classical Banach spaces, cubature formulas, and spherical designs, Geom. Dedicata 47 (1993), 327\'96362.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 Waserstein 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=j6HPyxvPFcsC&pg=PA318&dq=waserstein&hl=en&ei=L8HkTvLDI-Lm0QHF4NXRDQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Networking 2011: Part 2 - Page 318}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 10th International IFIP TC 6 Networking Conference, Valencia, Spain, May 9-13, 2011, Proceedings
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 Jordi Domingo-Pascual, Pietro Manzoni, Sergio Palazzo - 2011 - 381 pages\
Waserstein rank distance\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 Vasershtein 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=2Silq0XVftYC&pg=PA136&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=S9LeUPrQO4m40QHe94CAAQ&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Extreme Value Methods With Applications to Finance - Page 136}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1079&bih=944&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Serguei+Y.+Novak%22&ei=S9LeUPrQO4m40QHe94CAAQ&ved=0CEQQ9AgwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Serguei Y. Novak}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2011\
Estimate of the accuracy of approximation (8.11) in terms of a 
\i Vasershtein
\i0 -type distance is given by Barbour et al. [30].\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wdSOqgVbdRcC&pg=PA131&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&ei=86FjTcykKsr2gAew4_2TAg&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=7&ved=0CEgQ6AEwBjha"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Entropy and Information Theory - Page 131}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul , 132  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?start=90&hl=en&sa=N&tbs=bks:1,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2010,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2011&q=inauthor:%22Robert+M.+Gray%22&ei=86FjTcykKsr2gAew4_2TAg&ved=0CEkQ9Ag4Wg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 Robert M. Gray}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - Springer 2011        \uc0\u8234 ISBN1441979700, 9781441979704\uc0\u8236   - 409 pages \
Monge/Kantorovich/
\i Vasershtein
\i0 . Distance.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs32 \cf0 Vaserstein 2012  7 books\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3SWNZaDM6iMC&pg=PA600&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ofHaUN3COOm60AGp6oCYBQ&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Rational Number Theory in the 20th Century: From Pnt to Flt - Page 600}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Wadysaw.+Narkiewicz%22&sa=X&ei=ofHaUN3COOm60AGp6oCYBQ&ved=0CDMQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Wadysaw. Narkiewicz}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2012\
15, 389\'96400 (1953) 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , L.N.: Waring's problem for commutative rings. J. Number Theory 26, 299\'96307 (1987) 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , L.N.: Every integer is a sum or difference of 28 integral eighth powers. J. Number Theory 28, 66\'9668 (1988) 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mk32CVAK--wC&pg=PA202&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ofHaUN3COOm60AGp6oCYBQ&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Issues in Mathematical Theory and Modeling: 2011 Edition - Page 202}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Q Ashton Acton, PhD\uc0\u8236    \uc0\u8234 ScholarlyEditions, 2012\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 ISBN1464966931, 9781464966934\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Vaserstein
\i0  and colleagues published their study in International Journal of Number Theory (Polynomial 
\b ...
\b0  Additional information can be obtained by contacting L. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , Pennsylvania State University, Dept. of Math, University Park, PA 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=NHXYYntLjD0C&pg=PT8&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ofHaUN3COOm60AGp6oCYBQ&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Issues in Algebra, Geometry, and Topology: 2011 Edition}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Q Ashton Acton, PhD ScholarlyEditions, 2012\uc0\u8236      \uc0\u8234 ISBN1464966346, 9781464966347\uc0\u8236 \
R, Lambda), which is an analog for the results existing in the general linear groups; see [L.N. 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , The subnormal structure of general linear groups over rings, Math. Proc. Cambridge Philos. Soc., 108 (1990) 219-229; N.A. Vavilov, 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=OYuXxdrt-GAC&pg=PA32&dq=vaserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ofHaUN3COOm60AGp6oCYBQ&ved=0CD8Q6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Noncommutative Iwasawa Main Conjectures Over Totally Real Fields:  - Page 32}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 M\'fcnster, April 2011
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \

\b0\fs24 John Coates, Peter Schneider, R. Sujatha - 2012\
The following result of 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  is very useful. Proposition 2.4. Let R be a semilocal ring. Then the natural inclusion of R D GL1.R/ into GL.
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=udcvZly8ZE8C&pg=PT735&lpg=PT735&dq=vaserstein&source=bl&ots=NeZ4RxuKVE&sig=irte0SGwEYl0Oa8e67TbJFKXgss&hl=en&sa=X&ei=mhcqULD9MqaU6QG2l4GABg&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Number Theory, Analysis and Geometry}}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul  - Page 346,347\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone In Memory of Serge Lang
\b \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22D.+Goldfeld%22&sa=X&ei=mhcqULD9MqaU6QG2l4GABg&ved=0CDsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 D. Goldfeld}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2012 - 704 pages 
\b ISBN 10.1007/978-1-4614-1260-1
\b0 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone We may now apply the theorem of Mathews, 
\i Vaserstein
\i0 , and Weisfeller [MVW], to , to conclude that for all sufficiently large l prime to N, say for all \
l not in the finite set S, \uc0\u915  maps onto . For any such l, \u915 3 maps onto the image of in , i.e., \u915 3 maps 
\b ...\
\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mmk.mdu.edu.ua/main_main.pdf#page=144"}}{\fldrslt Stable range adequate Bezout duo-ring}}- Page 120\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 I Vasiunyk - International Mathematical 
\b Conference
\b0 , 2012 - mmk.mdu.edu.ua\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  \uc0\u1057 \u1090 \u1091 \u1076 ., 1998.\'969.\'96\u8470  2.\'96\u1057 . 115-119. [3] 
\b Vaserstein
\b0  LN The stable rank of rings and dimensionality\
of topological spaces// Functional Anal. Appl., 1971.\'965.\'96P. 102-110. [4] \uc0\u1042 \u1072 \u1089 \u1102 \u1085 \u1080 \u1082  I. \u1057 , \u1047 \u1072 \u1073 \u1072 \u1074 \u1089 \u1100 \u1082 \u1080 \u1081 \
\uc0\u1041 \u1042  \u1057 \u1090 \u1072 \u1073 i\u1083 \u1100 \u1085 \u1080 \u1081  \u1088 \u1072 \u1085 \u1075  \u1076 \u1091 \u1086 -\u1082 i\u1083 \u1100 \u1094 \u1103  \u1041 \u1077 \u1079 \u1091  \u1090 \u1072  \u1081 \u1086 \u1075 \u1086  \u1091 \u1079 \u1072 \u1075 \u1072 \u1083 \u1100 \u1085 \u1077 \u1085 \u1085 \u1103 //\u1055 \u1088 \u1080 \u1082 \u1083 . \u1087 \u1088 \u1086 \u1073 \u1083 . \u1084 \u1077 \u1093 . 
\b ...
\b0 \
Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://web.math.princeton.edu/facultypapers/sarnak/NotesOnThinGroups.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Notes on thin matrix groups}}\cf4 \ul  - Page 17\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 P Sarnak - Proceedings of MSRI 
\b conference 
\b0 on Thin Groups and \'85 - math.princeton.edu\
Page 1. Notes on Thin Matrix Groups Peter Sarnak Prepared for the MSRI hot topics\
workshop on superstrong approximation (Feb. 2012). My aim is to give an overview\
of the developments in the theory and its applications. 
\b ...\

\b0 L. Vaserstein\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs34 \cf0 Wasserstein 2012  66 books\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=aSv09LwmuRYC&pg=PA869&dq=wasserstein+statistics&hl=en&sa=X&ei=7kPoUJ7pLoWw0QHi4ICAAg&ved=0CFkQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Handbook of Computational 
\i \ulnone Statistics
\i0 \ul : Concepts and Methods - Page 869}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 James E. Gentle, Wolfgang Karl H\'e4rdle, Yuichi Mori - 2012 \
There are well established 
\i statistics
\i0  that measure the difference in distribution. In survival analysis, we 
\b ...
\b0  Gordon and Olshen used the so-called Lp 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metrics, d p .; /; \
as the measure of discrepancy between the two survival functions.
\fs34 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.prosiding.papsi.org/index.php/APS/article/view/53"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul A Varian of Kolmogorovian Probability Emerging from Quantum Theory}}
\fs24 \
MF Rosyid - Asian Physics 
\b Symposium
\b0 , 2012 - prosiding.papsi.org\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  The metric di defined on \uc0\u937 i induced the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  metric W i d on PW(\uc0\u937 i) through 
\b ...
\b0  Now Let\
\'88 \'88 :\uc0\u949  
\f5 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  \uc0\u931  \'d7 \'d7 \u931  D P P W 1 W N A A ( ( )) . be a maping from the set of all density operators into\
the product space of 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  spaces \'88 \uc0\u931  PW i A ( ( )) defined by 
\b ...
\b0\fs34 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5aDaYQcaHI4C&pg=PA254&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=U9AST5nzC8210AHTkviADA&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\b\fs28 \cf10 \ul \ulc10 Scale Space and Variational Methods in Computer Vision:  - Page}}
\f0\b\fs28 \cf10 \ul \ulc10   xi, 250, 252, 254, 435, 436, 438, 439, 442, 445\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Third International Conference, SSVM 2011, Ein-Gedi, Israel, May 29 -- June 2, 2011, Revised Selected Papers
\f0\b\fs28 \cf10 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone Alfred M. Bruckstein, Bart Ter Haar Romeny, Alexander M. Bronstein - Springer 2012 - 798 pages 
\f1 \uc0\u8234 3642247849, 9783642247842\uc0\u8236     
\f0 \cf10 \ul \

\f1 \cf0 \ulnone Moreover, W2 is too difficult to handle in problems requiring the optimization of point clouds with functional involving the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0 .\
To overcome the time complexity involved by the numerical solving of such problem, the original 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  is replaced by a sliced approximation over 1D distributions. 
\b \

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Nobsb2AppfQC&pg=PA325&lpg=PA325&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=wdKzHq8Ybi&sig=2K6Szko_u553z52Pc8r0EXyzSms&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Yw4qUNbsIeO36wHd94Aw&ved=0CGMQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Recent Advances in Computer Science and Information Engineering: Volume 5 - Page 325}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone an, Lei Cao, Weilian Su - 2012 - 766 pages - Google eBook \

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14280\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14160\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 The 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  miss-distance is proposed to evaluate the multitarget tracking performance [3]. Fig. 1. Plot of x and y components of position estimates (star) against time, superimposed on ground truth (solid line) (single experiment result) 
\b ...
\b0 \cf4 \ul \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CSuwJ1xyKRAC&pg=PA240&lpg=PA240&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=KqZOMBr31C&sig=eSTcDlZeRjm7LXC8pvXDU1wsKQs&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HQ8qUJOrDoXf6wG6yoHACg&ved=0CDcQ6AEwATgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Issues in Statistics, Decision Making, and Stochastics: 2011 Edition - Page 240}}
\b0\fs24 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14260\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14140\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 Wuhan University: Sanov's theorem in the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance: A necessary and sufficient condition \'93Let (X-n)(n >= 1) be a sequence of i.i.d.r.v.'s with values in a Polish space (E, d) of law mu,\'94 investigators in Wuhan, People's Republic of 
\b ...
\b0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=8oB9l4CKhGEC&q=wasserstein&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=oqGpNxRA9a&sig=8Lk98GGPSU_oilXLNlZ-Zs7UlXQ&hl=en&sa=X&ei=HQ8qUJOrDoXf6wG6yoHACg&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Contemporary Theory and Pragmatic Approaches in Fuzzy Computing }}\cf4 \ul Utilization - Page ix, 30, 32
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
Toly Chen - 2012 - 382 pages\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14140\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14020\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 Irpino and Verde (2008) has derived Equation (10) from another point of view, using the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance. To be more specific, let F1 and F 2 be distribution functions, the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  L2 metric is defined as follows (Gibbs & Su, 2002): 
\b ...
\b0 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=SpLpXsF_6k4C&printsec=frontcover&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=svAi8Mg_36&sig=DO9sY_u5gYZSK6jMH56XWtDwN0s&hl=en&sa=X&ei=nQ8qUIjsH8rG6gGt44CQCA&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Second Order Analysis on (P2(M), W2)}}\cf4 \ul - Page 154\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nicola+Gigli%22&ei=nQ8qUIjsH8rG6gGt44CQCA&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4FA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Nicola Gigli}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2012 - 154 pages \
MR2344814 (2008j:49113) K.-T. Sturm, M.K. von Renesse, Entropic Measure and 
\i Wasserstein Diffusion
\i0 , Ann. Probab. 37 (2009), pp. 1114\'961191.\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Ziy81kH3KfUC&pg=PA166&lpg=PA166&dq=wasserstein+distance&source=bl&ots=ZYduzX3k0R&sig=-Wf-gkz3eTz6FHg5uR0Wxq1--aw&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CD0Q6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Robotics: Science and Systems VII - Page 166}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone e.com{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hugh+Durrant-Whyte%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CD4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\i0 \cf4 \ul Hugh Durrant-Whyte}}
\i0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hugh+Durrant-Whyte%22&q=inauthor:%22Nicholas+Roy%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CD8Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Nicholas Roy}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hugh+Durrant-Whyte%22&q=inauthor:%22Nicholas+Roy%22&q=inauthor:%22Pieter+Abbeel%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CEAQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Pieter Abbeel}} - 2012 - 384 pages \
C. Belief space metric To compute 
\i distance
\i0  between beliefs in B (line 11 & 15 of Algorithm 1), GCS uses 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  
\b ...
\b0  The 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  WD(b,b) between two beliefs b,b 
\f5 \uc0\u8712 
\f1  B is the minimum expected 
\i distance
\i0  in S among all 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=JrPqWrN1gTsC&pg=PA48&lpg=PA48&dq=wasserstein+distance&source=bl&ots=-CS_faXaUQ&sig=vbeYsc5akk50WlbCkIDSdyqlYsk&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Using Survival Trees to Forecast Innovation Diffusion - Page 47, 48}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone books.google.com{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Burkhard+von+Wangenheim%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CEsQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\i0 \cf4 \ul Burkhard von Wangenheim}}
\i0  - 2012 - 108 pages \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Figure 3-3: The 1L 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  between two Kaplan-Meier curves Source: Zhang, Singer (1999), p. 94 Now, let us take )(1)(11tStF\uc0\u8722 = \
and )(1)(22tStF\uc0\u8722 =. Note that F1 and F2 have all properties of a distribution function except that they 
\b ...
\b0 \cf4 \ul \
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oJTQZX5hBSEC&pg=PA25&lpg=PA25&dq=wasserstein+distance&source=bl&ots=GgcQ9tnkVx&sig=oToyYgRiaAPyG3RXRdixhoszKy8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CFUQ6AEwBg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Visual Indexing and Retrieval - Page 25}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone books.google.com{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jenny+Benois-Pineau%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CFYQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\i0 \cf4 \ul Jenny Benois-Pineau}}
\i0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jenny+Benois-Pineau%22&q=inauthor:%22Fr%C3%A9d%C3%A9ric+Precioso%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CFcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Fr\'e9d\'e9ric Precioso}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jenny+Benois-Pineau%22&q=inauthor:%22Fr%C3%A9d%C3%A9ric+Precioso%22&q=inauthor:%22Matthieu+Cord%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CFgQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Matthieu Cord}} - 2012 - 107 pages - Google eBook\
In that case, the EMD is equivalent to the 1st Mallows 
\i distance
\i0  or 1st 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  between the two distributions. Recently, Pele and Werman [163] proposed a modified version of EMD extending standard EMD to non-normalized 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=RxMky34FfK4C&pg=PA215&lpg=PA215&dq=wasserstein+distance&source=bl&ots=PbEB0jLDCS&sig=jsJinvdfBCqv5zGttoYRd7i05yk&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CGIQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Professional Media Understanding:  - Page 215}}
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 The Common Methods of Audio Retrieval, Biosignal Processing, Content-Based Image Retrieval, Face Recognition, Music Classification, Speech Recognition, Text Retrieval and Video Surveillance\uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 books.google.com{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Horst+Eidenberger%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CGMQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\i0 \cf4 \ul Horst Eidenberger}}
\i0  - 2012 - 256 pages\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth15680\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth15560\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 M5 inf x sup y mi(x, y) Bottleneck 
\i distance
\i0 . M6 max sup x infy m i (x, y) , sup y 
\b ...
\b0  j mi(\uc0\u32 \u772 xj, yj )c(\u32 \u772 xj, y j ) K Mallows 
\i distance
\i0  [133] (a.k.a. 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0 , earth mover's 
\i distance
\i0 ), where c() is the cost function weighting the 
\i distances
\i0 . B.3.
\b\fs28 \cell \lastrow\row

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth15680\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1160\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt40 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14200\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl140 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cell 

\itap2\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14200\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14080\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap2\pardeftab720
\cf0 \nestcell \lastrow\nestrow\cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mk32CVAK--wC&pg=PA186&lpg=PA186&dq=wasserstein+distance&source=bl&ots=KDc8kgjN1s&sig=DaT3XXQxRHSYvJhXJEMj8R992dA&hl=en&sa=X&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CGcQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Issues in Mathematical Theory and Modeling: 2011 Edition - Page 186}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 books.google.com
\i0 2012 - Google eBook\

\itap1\trowd \taflags0 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trwWidth14260\trftsWidth3 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalc \clshdrawnil \clwWidth14140\clftsWidth3 \clmart10 \clmarl10 \clmarb10 \clmarr10 \clbrdrt\brdrnil \clbrdrl\brdrnil \clbrdrb\brdrnil \clbrdrr\brdrnil \clpadt20 \clpadl20 \clpadb20 \clpadr20 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720
\cf0 \'93We use a probabilistic interpretation to obtain convergence towards equilibrium in 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  with an explicit exponential rate. We also prove a propagation of chaos property for an associated particle system, and give rates on the 
\b ...
\b0 \cf4 \ul \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Fgm0If_Wi64C&pg=PA315&lpg=PA315&dq=wasserstein+distance&source=bl&ots=zrCfzzLp7l&sig=YzDmJ8rUPscyeYsTFdZFN8LUcl8&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2xMqUMnUEKTr0gH344BY&ved=0CDIQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations: The Abel Symposium 2010 - Page 315}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 355\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Helge+Holden%22&ei=2xMqUMnUEKTr0gH344BY&ved=0CDMQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Helge Holden}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Helge+Holden%22&q=inauthor:%22Kenneth+H.+Karlsen%22&ei=2xMqUMnUEKTr0gH344BY&ved=0CDQQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Kenneth H. Karlsen}} - 2012 - 360 pages\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \ulnone ...
\b0  
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  of order 1, W1(\uc0\u956 ,\u957 ) = sup: \{\u8747  \u966 d\u956  \u8722  \u8747  \u966 d\u957 ;\u966 1-Lipschitz \} . Estimates of this sort are found in [95, Chap. 5] and date back to \
the 1970s (Dobrushin [48], Braun and Hepp [24], Neunzert [87]).\
Gangbo, W.: Hamiltonian ODE's in the 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  of probability
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=tYEW5cMWMXAC&pg=PA451&lpg=PA451&dq=wasserstein+distance&source=bl&ots=K5RpIClFV5&sig=y-vd96mzhNln4AgTccTb5qGV420&hl=en&sa=X&ei=2xMqUMnUEKTr0gH344BY&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Foundations of Software Science and Computational Structures:  - Page 451}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 15th International Conference, FOSSACS 2012, Held as Part of the European Joint Conferences on Theory and Practice of Software, ETAPS 2012, Tallinn, Estonia, March 24 -- April 1, 2012, Proceedings
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lars+Birkedal%22&ei=2xMqUMnUEKTr0gH344BY&ved=0CEQQ9Ag4Cg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Lars Birkedal}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2012 - 484 pages \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \ulnone ...
\b0  7. van Breugel, F., Worrell, J.: Approximating and computing behavioural 
\i distances
\i0  in probabilistic transition systems. 
\b ...
\b0  (1986) Thorsley, D., \
Klavins, E.: Approximating stochastic biochemical processes with 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  pseudometrics.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=6ASdx0Rblk4C&pg=PA423&dq=Wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=PcfEUJqyLO2M0QGetYGAAg&ved=0CEgQ6AEwCA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Finite Frames: Theory and Applications - Page 416, 423}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Peter+G.+Casazza%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Peter G. Casazza}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Gitta+Kutyniok%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Gitta Kutyniok}} - 2012\
Given any nonzero vectors \uc0\u934  = \{\u966 i \}Mi=1, there are two natural embeddings into the space of probability measures, namely 1 \u8721 Mi=1\u966 i2 M\u8721  i=1 \u966 i 2 \u948 \u966 i/\u966 i. \
The 2-
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance between \uc0\u956 \u934  and \u956 \u936  satisfies \u956 \u934 = 1 M M\u8721  i=1\u948 \u966 i and 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3UpBcP6vkHAC&pg=PA107&dq=wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=BujaUICHFMS20QGukoHgDQ&ved=0CEUQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Issues in Calculus, Mathematical Analysis, and Nonlinear Research: 2011 Edition - Page 107}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 ScholarlyEditions\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Jan 4, 2012\uc0\u8236 \
\'93The 
\i coupling
\i0  arises from the Stokes drag force exerted by a phase on the other. 
\b ...
\b0  (2010 DEC 7) SISSA, Trieste: Estimates On Path Functionals Over \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein
\i0  Spaces \'93In this paper we consider the class a functionals (introduced in 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=CNwLXv80ehgC&pg=PA44&dq=wasserstein+coupling&hl=en&sa=X&ei=BujaUICHFMS20QGukoHgDQ&ved=0CFQQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Advances in Dynamic Games:  - Page 44}}
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Theory, Applications, and Numerical Methods for Differential and Stochastic Games
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Pierre+Cardaliaguet%22&sa=X&ei=BujaUICHFMS20QGukoHgDQ&ved=0CFYQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Pierre Cardaliaguet}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ross+Cressman%22&sa=X&ei=BujaUICHFMS20QGukoHgDQ&ved=0CFcQ9AgwBA"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Ross Cressman}} - 2012\
An example of such a distance could be the classical 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  distance or the Monge\'96Kantorovich distance between 
\b ...
\b0  additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) multiple-access channel with N senders with 
\i coupled
\i0  constraints (or actions).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7wUWgnZS_zwC&pg=PA106&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4enaUKCnAYWD0QGyxoGwAw&ved=0CDsQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\b\fs28 \cf4 Metric
\i0 \ul  and Differential Geometry: The Jeff Cheeger Anniversary Volume - Page 106}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Xianzhe Dai, Xiaochun Rong - 2012\
In 2005, Sturm introduced a new distance between metric measure spaces which leads to such limits more naturally and also interacts well with mass transport notions mentioned above [65]. He uses the 
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0 , Wp, to measure\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Be_Jbjm2dyMC&pg=PT96&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4enaUKCnAYWD0QGyxoGwAw&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Integrated Tracking, Classification, and Sensor Management: Theory }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul and Applications\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Mahendra Mallick, Vikram Krishnamurthy, Ba-Ngu Vo - 2012\
This distance was termed the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  in [44] because it yields the pth order 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  between the empirical distributions of the point patterns Xand Y. The OMAT metric is not necessarily better than the Hausdorff 
\b ...\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=DR8vcaJr3R4C&pg=PA318&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4enaUKCnAYWD0QGyxoGwAw&ved=0CFAQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Operator Theory:  - Page 310, 317, 318}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 319, 320, 321
\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \uc0\u8234 Advances and Applications, Mathematical Methods in Systems, Optimization, and Control: Festschrift in Honor of J. William Helton
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Harry+Dym%22&sa=X&ei=4enaUKCnAYWD0QGyxoGwAw&ved=0CFIQ9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Harry Dym}}
\b0\fs24 , Mauricio C. de Oliveira, Mihai Putinar - 2012 \
Now noting the characterization of the Wasserstein norm from Equation (16), we see that the steepest gradient direction (with respect to the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0 ) is given by \uc0\u956 t = div(\u956 
\f5 \uc0\u8711 
\f1 log\uc0\u956 )=\u916 \u956 , which is the linear heat equation. \
Thus inspired by the Benamou and Brenier [4], given two \'93points,\'94 [14],\}11 G D, the geodesic (
\i Wasserstein
\i0 ) 
\i distance
\i0  is: 1 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=QplGlQ2a89cC&pg=PA94&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=4enaUKCnAYWD0QGyxoGwAw&ved=0CF4Q6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Multi-Scale and High-Contrast PDE: From Modelling, to Mathematical Analysis, toInversion - Page 93, 94}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Habib Ammari, Yves Capdeboscq, Hyeonbae Kang - 2012 AMS Cont Math 577\
We consider a nonlinear fourth-order 
\i diffusion
\i0  equation that arises in denoising of image densities as the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  gradient flow of the total variation.\
Here, W2 (u0 Ld,uLd) is the 2\'96
\i Wasserstein distance
\i0  between u0Ld and uLd (Ld denotes the Lebesgue measure in Rd, d = 1,2) and defines a distance within the space of probability measures [3, 20, 21, 1, 17]. This minimisation problem can be interpreted as a discrete in time approximation of a solution of the gradient flow (1.1) of E(u) with respect to the L2 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0 .
\b \

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=u8o_7Fsz7V0C&pg=PA229&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Problems in Probability - Page 229}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul , 243\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Al%27bert+Nikolaevich+Shiriaev%22&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CDMQ9AgwADgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Al'bert Nikolaevich Shiriaev}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 201\
O (a) Prove that the function d2 I d2(F, G), which is known as the 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0 , is indeed a metric and the space 82 is complete for the metric d2. (b) Let 1 ;:::; n be independent and identically distributed 3.13 The Fundamental Theorems 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=HIC2SmUmPQwC&pg=PT120&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=l8XeUOfEPKy10QH8hIDQBw&ved=0CF4Q6AEwBw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Asymptotic Theory of Statistics and Probability }}\cf4 \ul for Statistics and Machine Learning: Fundamentals and Advanced Topics by Anirban DasGupta\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone ISBN \uc0\u8234 9780387759708
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Reviews%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CF0Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 Cram101 Reviews}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1982&bih=1053&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Reviews%22&q=inauthor:%22Anirban+DasGupta%22&ei=uhEqUMbpJ8PF6wGC-oHwBQ&ved=0CF4Q9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Anirban DasGupta}} - 2012 - 43 pages\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Eigenfunction Cell David V. Hinkley 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  deterministic or essentially probabilistic) which is \
analyzable in terr 
\b ...
\b0  one pile into the other, Vi assumed to be the amount of dirt that needs to be moved times the 
\i distance
\i0  it has to be moved\
The name 'Wasserstein/
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance'\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=qtAEzHL833UC&pg=PT190&lpg=PT190&dq=wasserstein&source=bl&ots=wrJOGrEhbX&sig=sLZECYoL8Zab0zePKtR0UXyKuY4&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Yw4qUNbsIeO36wHd94Aw&ved=0CEUQ6AEwAw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Just the FACTS101 E-Study Guide For: Probability for Statistics .}}\cf4 \ul a nd Machine Learning\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 ISBN 9781441996336
\fs22  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Reviews%22&sa=X&ei=Yw4qUNbsIeO36wHd94Aw&ved=0CEYQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \uc0\u8236 Cram101 Reviews}}
\b0\fs24 \uc0\u8236 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Reviews%22&q=inauthor:%22Anirban+DasGupta%22&sa=X&ei=Yw4qUNbsIeO36wHd94Aw&ved=0CEcQ9Ag"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Anirban DasGupta}} - 2012 - 43 pages \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein Wasserstein
\i0  Distance In mathematics, the 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  (or Vasershtein) metric is a distance function defined between probability distributions on a given metric space M. Intuitively, if each distribution is viewed as a unit amount of 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=vii1THCLHtQC&pg=PT95&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CEUQ6AEwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Introduction to Probability and Statistics by }}\cf4 \ul William Mendenhall\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CEcQ9AgwBDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Cram101 Textbook Reviews}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein metric
\i0  d. Infinite monkey theorem 4. A ______ is a single measure of some attribute of a sample (e.g. its arithmetic mean value). It is calculated by applying a function (statistical algorithm) to the values of the items comprising the\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ERze17MFqNMC&pg=PT86&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CEoQ6AEwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Elementary Statistics, A Brief Version by Allan }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Bluman\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CEwQ9AgwBTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Cram101 Textbook Reviews}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2012\
For tossing two coins, the ______ is \{(head,head), (head,tail), (tail,head), (tail,tail)\}. a. Sample space b. Subjectivism c. 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  d. Christopher Cattan 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Jz6tUpVb19UC&pg=PT26&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Probability, Statistics, and Stochastic }}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Processes by  Peter Olofsson\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CFEQ9AgwBjgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Cram101 Textbook Reviews}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 -\
Standard probability space b. Subjectivism c. 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  d. Sample space 5. In mathematics, a ______ is a set with some added structure. Mathematical _________s often form a hierarchy, i.e., one\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=v7nDj6FjWJ8C&pg=PT343&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CFQQ6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Stats: Modeling the World by David E. Bock, ...}}
\b\fs28  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CFYQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Cram101 Textbook Reviews}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  if the experiment is tossing a coin, the ______ istheset \{head, tail\}. For tossing two coins, the ______ is \{(head,head), (head,tail), (tail,head), (tail,tail)\}. a. Standard probabilityspace b. Subjectivism c. 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  d. Sample space 3. In.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=zylBaqATFrAC&pg=PT205&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CFkQ6AEwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Statistical Ideas and Methods by Jessica M}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul  Utts\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CFsQ9AgwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Cram101 Textbook Reviews}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  (tail,tail)\}. a. Standard probability space b. Subjectivism c. 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  d.Sample space Chapter 8. Random Variables ANSWER KEY 0. b.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=WkGiBDTgmjUC&pg=PT125&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CF4Q6AEwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Discrete Calculus: Applied Analysis on Graphs }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul for Computational Science by Leo J. Grady \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=wezaUIipO7LK0AHWqYCAAw&ved=0CGAQ9AgwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Cram101 Textbook Reviews}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 \
Total variation c. Typical set d.
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  3. ______ is a class ofmachine learning techniques that make use ofboth labeled and unlabeled data for training typicallya small amount oflabeled data with a large amount ofunlabeled data.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=dRYV-5BUtO0C&pg=PT42&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CDEQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Fundamentals of Biostatistics by Bernard }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul  Rosner \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CDMQ9AgwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Cram101 Textbook Reviews}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 \
 For tossing two coins, the ______ is \{(head,head), (head,tail), (tail,head), (tail,tail)\}. a. Standard probability space b. Subjectivism c. 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  d. Sample space 5.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=BxbqIych4ZAC&pg=PT30&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CDYQ6AEwATgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul e-Study Guide for: Probability and Statistics for Engineers and ...}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Cram101+Textbook+Reviews%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CDgQ9AgwATgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Cram101 Textbook Reviews}} - 2012 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 Wasserstein metric
\i0  d. Structural equation modeling 5. In mathematics, a ______ is a setwith some added structure. Mathematical _________s often form a hierarchy, i.e., one ______ mayinherit all the characteristics ofa parent ______.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=sc5irSgzrhAC&pg=PA83&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CEYQ6AEwBDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul On the Shape of a Pure O-Sequence - Page 83}}
\b\fs28  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mats+Boij%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CEgQ9AgwBDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Mats Boij}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 
\b ...
\b0  manifolds and applications, 2011 Mark Walsh, 
\i Metrics
\i0  of positive scalar curvature and generalised Morse functions, part\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=E7iO8jdri-0C&pg=PA110&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CEsQ6AEwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul N-Harmonic Mappings Between Annuli: The Art of Integrating Free ... - Page 110}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Tadeusz+Iwaniec%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CE0Q9AgwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Tadeusz Iwaniec}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Tadeusz+Iwaniec+and+Jani+Onninen%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CE4Q9AgwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Tadeusz Iwaniec and Jani Onninen}} - 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 
\b ...
\b0  manifolds and applications, 2011 Mark Walsh, 
\i Metrics
\i0  of positive scalar curvature and generalised Morse functions, part\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=lYTXVETuybMC&pg=PA74&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CFEQ6AEwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul General Relativistic Self-Similar Waves That Induce an Anomalous ... - Page 74}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Joel+A.+Smoller%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CFMQ9AgwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Joel A. Smoller}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Blake+Temple%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CFQQ9AgwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Blake Temple}} - 2012 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 
\b ...
\b0  manifolds and applications, 2011 Mark Walsh, 
\i Metrics
\i0  of positive scalar curvature and generalised Morse functions, part\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TYTOy_9qp_IC&pg=PA110&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CFcQ6AEwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul The Lin-Ni's Problem for Mean Convex Domains - Page 110}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Olivier+Druet%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CFkQ9AgwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Olivier Druet}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Frederic+Robert%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CFoQ9AgwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Frederic Robert}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Juncheng+Wei%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CFsQ9AgwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Juncheng Wei}} - 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 
\b ...
\b0  manifolds and applications, 2011 Mark Walsh, 
\i Metrics
\i0  of positive scalar curvature and generalised Morse functions, part\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=sQZCihbESFwC&pg=PA95&dq=wasserstein+metric&hl=en&sa=X&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CF4Q6AEwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul The Goodwillie Tower and the Ehp Sequence - Page 95}}
\b\fs28  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1591&bih=1020&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mark+Behrens%22&ei=me7aUJ_XF-6D0QGPz4D4BQ&ved=0CGAQ9AgwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Mark Behrens}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 
\b ...
\b0  manifolds and applications, 2011 Mark Walsh, 
\i Metrics
\i0  of positive scalar curvature and generalised Morse functions, part\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=LAZ7gK5IFgQC&pg=PA276&dq=Wasserstein+coupling+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=VXzbUMqdFeuJ0QH8jIHgBg&ved=0CEgQ6AEwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Gap Junctions in the Brain: Physiological and Pathological Roles - Page 276}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ekrem+Dere%22&sa=X&ei=VXzbUMqdFeuJ0QH8jIHgBg&ved=0CEoQ9AgwAg"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Ekrem Dere}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 \
Role of olivary electrical 
\i coupling
\i0  in cerebellar motor learning. Neuron 58, 599e612. Vandecasteele 
\b ...
\b0  
\i coupling
\i0  is required for proper insulin production. J. Cell Biol. 131, 1561e1572. 
\b ...
\b0  
\i Wasserstein
\i0 , J., 2005. Diagnostic issues for adolescents 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=seZyMQEACAAJ&dq=Wasserstein+coupling+-Bruce+-Wendy&hl=en&sa=X&ei=VXzbUMqdFeuJ0QH8jIHgBg&ved=0CFsQ6AEwBQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Asymptotic Methods in Statistical Decision Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbs=bkt:b,cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Lucien+Le+Cam%22&sa=X&ei=VXzbUMqdFeuJ0QH8jIHgBg&ved=0CF0Q9AgwBQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Lucien Le Cam}} - 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 Springer London, Limited\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Jul 31, 2012\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 772 pages\uc0\u8236 \
ISBN-13: 9781461293699\
Wasserstein\cf4 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=gJ_PrPP_rvIC&pg=PA208&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CEcQ6AEwAzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 Stochastic Analysis and Related Topics - Page 203, 208}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Laurent. Decreusefond, Jamal. Najim - 2012 \
In the case of Wiener 
\i space
\i0 , we can define a stronger 
\i Wasserstein metric
\i0  using the Cameron\'96Martin norm as we have already done in [5, 6] as follows: d2H.P;Q/ D\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=7Id8-lHHDkwC&pg=PA125&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CF4Q6AEwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Infinite-Dimensional Representations Of 2-Groups - Page 125}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22John+C.+Baez%22&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CGAQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul John C. Baez}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Aristide+Baratin%22&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CGEQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Aristide Baratin}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Laurent+Freidel%22&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CGIQ9AgwBzgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Laurent Freidel}} - 2012  Mem AMS\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  2011 Wilfrid Gangbo, Hwa Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 2011 Ralph Greenberg, Iwasawa theory, projective modules, and modular representations, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=kwECmDTjUJUC&pg=PA136&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CGUQ6AEwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Vector Bundles on Degenerations of Elliptic Curves and Yang-Baxter Equations - Page 136}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Igor+Burban%22&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CGcQ9AgwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Igor Burban}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Bernd+Kreuler%22&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CGgQ9AgwCDgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Bernd Kreuler}} - 2012 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=xsAgeVorxZ0C&pg=PA92&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CGwQ6AEwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Extended Graphical Calculus for Categorified Quantum Sl(2) - Page 92}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Mikhail+Khovanov%22&ei=gOjeUNuJNrOJ0QHHtID4Cg&ved=0CG4Q9AgwCTgK"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Mikhail Khovanov}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  2011 Wilfrid Gangbo, Hwa Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 2011 Ralph Greenberg, Iwasawa theory, projective modules, and modular representations, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul F{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=HId5zPx2ufsC&pg=PA71&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CDcQ6AEwADgU"}}{\fldrslt inite Order Automorphisms and Real Forms of Affine Kac-Moody ... - Page 71}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ernst+Heintze%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CDkQ9AgwADgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Ernst Heintze}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Christian+Gross%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CDoQ9AgwADgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Christian Gross}} - 2012 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=HId5zPx2ufsC&pg=PA71&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CDsQuwUwADgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul  Mem AMS}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  2011 Wilfrid Gangbo, Hwa Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 2011 Ralph Greenberg, Iwasawa theory, projective modules, and modular representations, 
\b ...
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5QU2f8GT9McC&pg=PA128&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Modular Branching Rules for Projective Representations of }}
\b\fs28 Symmetric Groups{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=5QU2f8GT9McC&pg=PA128&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CEIQ6AEwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul  - Page 128}}
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22A+S+Kleshcheev%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CEQQ9AgwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul A S Kleshcheev}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vladimir+Shchigolev%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CEUQ9AgwAjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Vladimir Shchigolev}} - 2012 \
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=XlcR6kXqroYC&pg=PA113&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CEgQ6AEwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul The Reflective Lorentzian Lattices of Rank 3 - Page 113}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Daniel+Allcock%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CEoQ9AgwAzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Daniel Allcock}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012  Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=o3VEE-Z7W3YC&pg=PA222&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CE0Q6AEwBDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Elliptic Integrable Systems: A Comprehensive Geometric Interpolation - Page 222}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Idrisse+Khemar%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CE8Q9AgwBDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Idrisse Khemar}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 Mem AMS\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  2011 Wilfrid Gangbo, Hwa Kil Kim, and Tommaso Pacini, Differential forms on 
\i Wasserstein space
\i0  and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems, 2011 Ralph Greenberg, Iwasawa theory, projective modules, and modular representations, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=oqPA5PX-NSwC&pg=PA106&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CFIQ6AEwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Reifenberg Parameterizations for Sets With Holes - Page 106}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Guy+David%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CFQQ9AgwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 Guy David}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Tatiana+Toro%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CFUQ9AgwBTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Tatiana Toro}} - 2012 Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=mnkOfrXwWcMC&pg=PA101&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CFgQ6AEwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul On L-Packets for Inner Forms of SLn - Page 101}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Kaoru+Hiraga%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CFoQ9AgwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Kaoru Hiraga}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Hiroshi+Saito%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CFsQ9AgwBjgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Hiroshi Saito}} - 2012  Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=sRMWN6gJoPEC&pg=PA90&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CF4Q6AEwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Dimer Models and Calabi-Yau Algebras - Page 90}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nathan+Broomhead%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CGAQ9AgwBzgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Nathan Broomhead}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=TopzBhPZHxkC&pg=PA68&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CGMQ6AEwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Chevalley Supergroups - Page 68}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Fioresi&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2918543"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf4 \ulnone MR2918543}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=621204"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Fioresi, R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=622452"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Gavarini, F.}} Chevalley supergroups. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Mem_Amer_Math_Soc"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Mem. Amer. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=299413"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 215 (2012), no. 1014,}} vi+64 pp. ISBN: 978-0-8218-5300-9 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=14M30,%2817Bxx,58A50%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul 14M30 (17Bxx 58A50)}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=d4NEx2qTINQC&pg=PA111&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CGkQ6AEwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Weighted Shifts on Directed Trees - Page 111}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Zenon+Jan+Jabl%C3%B3nski%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CGsQ9AgwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Zenon Jan Jabl\'f3nski}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Il+Bong+Jung%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CGwQ9AgwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Il Bong Jung}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jan+Stochel%22&ei=AeveUM6_EqiO0QGJj4GAAw&ved=0CG0Q9AgwCTgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Jan Stochel}} - 2012 Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=3FQtfivU2tEC&pg=PA136&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CD4Q6AEwATge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Resistance Forms, Quasisymmetric Maps and Heat Kernel Estimates - Page 136}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jun+Kigami%22&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CEAQ9AgwATge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Jun Kigami}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012  Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=2stNawP__TsC&pg=PA118&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CEMQ6AEwAjge"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul Towards a Modulo $p$ Langlands Correspondence for GL$_2$ - Page 118}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Chistophe+Breuil%22&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CEUQ9AgwAjge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Chistophe Breuil}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Vytautas+Paskunas%22&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CEYQ9AgwAjge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Vytautas Paskunas}} - 2012   Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=ni34UbDf1AsC&pg=PA109&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CEkQ6AEwAzge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul The Hermitian Two Matrix Model with an Even Quartic Potential - Page 109}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Maurice+Duits%22&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CEsQ9AgwAzge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Maurice Duits}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Maurice+Duits,+Arno+B.J.+Kuijlaars,+and+Man+Yue+Mo%22&ei=WO3eUL6iKu6p0AH00oHwAw&ved=0CEwQ9AgwAzge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Maurice Duits, Arno B.J. Kuijlaars, and Man Yue Mo}} - 2012  Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=2iaJiLUsg0YC&pg=PA134&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=0u3eULWFMOSH0QH7lICQCg&ved=0CE8Q6AEwBDge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Networking Seifert Surgeries on Knots - Page 134}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Arnaud+Deruelle%22&ei=0u3eULWFMOSH0QH7lICQCg&ved=0CFEQ9AgwBDge"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul Arnaud Deruelle}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1151&bih=1011&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2012,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2013&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Arnaud+Deruelle,+Katura+Miyazaki,+and+Kimihiko+Motegi%22&ei=0u3eULWFMOSH0QH7lICQCg&ved=0CFIQ9AgwBDge"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Arnaud Deruelle, Katura Miyazaki, and Kimihiko Motegi}} - 2012  Mem AMS\
Wasserstein space
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Z5ph3owFbMEC&pg=PA312&dq=wasserstein+metric+OR+distance+OR+coupling+OR+space&hl=en&sa=X&ei=Hu_eUNqTNOne0gGAx4CQCA&ved=0CEcQ6AEwAzg8"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul Computational Modelling of Objects Represented in Images:  - Page 119, 312}}
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \uc0\u8234 Fundamentals, Methods and Applications\uc0\u8236  (Rome, Italy, 5-7 September 2012).
\b\fs28 \

\b0\fs24 Paolo Di Giamberardino, Daniela Iacoviello, Jo O Manuel R S Tavares - \uc0\u8234 CRC Press\uc0\u8236 , \uc0\u8234 Aug 28, 2012\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 496 pages\uc0\u8236 \
Wasserstein distance\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://people.tamu.edu/%7Eahalder/FurtherResults.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul Further Results on Probabilistic Model Validation in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Metric}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=0r__iyVPlB4C&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul A Halder}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=2LF_sqEAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul R Bhattacharya}} - \'85 IEEE 
\b Conference 
\b0 on Decision and \'85, 2012 - people.tamu.edu\
Abstract\'97In a recent work [1], we have introduced a probabilistic formulation for the model \
validation problem to provide a unifying framework for (in) validating nonlinear deterministic \
and stochastic models, in both discrete and continuous time. As an extension to that work, 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wpY17knJRYQC&pg=PA1710&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=w1kDT7XiIqnA0AHT4MSkAg&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAji-AQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf5 \ul \ulc5 2011 International Conference in Electrics, Communication and }}
\fs28 Automatic Control Proceedings\cf5 \ul \ulc5  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=wpY17knJRYQC&pg=PA1710&dq=wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=w1kDT7XiIqnA0AHT4MSkAg&ved=0CEAQ6AEwAji-AQ"}}{\fldrslt - Page 1710}} \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&biw=1351&bih=868&tbs=cdr:1,cd_min:Jan+1_2+2011,cd_max:Dec+31_2+2012&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ran+Chen%22&ei=w1kDT7XiIqnA0AHT4MSkAg&ved=0CEEQ9Ag4vgE"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf5 Ran Chen}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  - \uc0\u8234 Springer, 2012\uc0\u8236  - \uc0\u8234 1746 pages\uc0\u8236  \uc0\u8234 ISBN1441988491, 9781441988492
\b \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/G85485N7J174J531.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Multitarget PHD Particle Filter Tracker Based on Single-Target PHD}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 L Zhao, X Su, P Ma -\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  The 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance between the position estimates of the multitarget state and ground\
truth at each time step is used as a multitarget miss- distance as shown in Fig. 221.2. 
\b ...
\b0  1710 L.\
Zhao et al. Fig. 221.2 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distances of the two trackers 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 0 5 10 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 ISBN 978-1-4419-8848-5\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://meetingorganizer.copernicus.org/EGU2012/EGU2012-11612.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Power variations of heavy tailed jump diffusions in paleoclimatic time series}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 J Gairing, P Imkeller - \'85 Assembly 
\b Conference 
\b0 \'85, 2012 - meetingorganizer.copernicus.org\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  The method compares the empirical variation paths with their theoretical limits in terms\
of the Kolmogorov- Smirnov (uniform) and 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  metrics. We subdivide the data\
set into blocks and measure the power variation along these blocks. 
\b ...
\b0 \

\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.worldscientific.com/doi/abs/10.1142/S2010194512005612"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 CRITERIA OF COMPACTNESS IN L p-SPACES}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 VI Chilin, BA Rakhimov - \'85 Journal of Modern Physics: 
\b Conference 
\b0 \'85, 2012 - World Scientific\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Clustering methods traditionally applied to gene expression data. These methods require\
a metric (Euclidean, Boolean metrics, the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance and many others) and study\
of compactness in the spaces of the models of different choices. 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 ISSN: 2010-1945\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/mostRecentIssue.jsp?punumber=6233112"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf0 Control and Decision Conference (CCDC), 2012 24th Chinese}}
\b\fs48  
\b0\fs24 23-25 May 2012 
\f0\fs21 Taiyuan, China
\f1\b\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6244384"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Convergence analysis of asymmetric homogeneous Deffuant-Weisbuch model}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=nYl5trAAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 J Zhang}}
\b0\fs24 , G Chen, Y Hong - Control and Decision 
\b Conference 
\b0 ( \'85, 2012 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  empirical opinion density will concentrate around the solution of a probability measure-valued\
ordinary differential equation, which describes the system's mean-field dynamics, at an exponential\
probability rate under the measure of first- order Kantorovich-
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance. 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 ISBN \'a0978-1-4577-2073-4\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/mostRecentIssue.jsp?punumber=6294629"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs30 \cf0 Information Reuse and Integration (IRI), 2012 IEEE 13th International Conference on}}
\fs30  
\b0\fs24 8-10 Aug. 2012 Las Vegas, USA
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.maths.manchester.ac.uk/%7Ekd/PREPRINTS/DodsonIRI2012.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Information neighbourhoods for visualization and monitoring strategies of real stochastic behaviour trajectories: computational aspects. Keynote Lecture}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 CTJ Dodson - \'85 IEEE 
\b Conference 
\b0 on Information Reuse \'85, 2012 - maths.manchester.ac.uk\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  IEEE Transactions on Informa- tion Theory 57, 8 (2011) 5455-5466. [24] J. Rabin and G. Peyr\'e9.\

\b Wasserstein
\b0  Regulariza- tion of Imaging Problem. In Proc. 
\b ...
\b0  [28] Asuka Takatsu. On 
\b Wasserstein
\b0 \
geometry of the space of Gaussian measures. (2011) arXiv:0801.2250v3. 
\b ...
\b0 \

\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/mostRecentIssue.jsp?punumber=6297579"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs32 \cf0 American Control Conference (ACC), 2012}}
\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://a2c2.org/conferences/acc2012/index.php"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf0 27-29 June 2012 Fairmont Queen Elizabeth in Montr\'e9al.}}
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6315639"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Geometric methods for structured covariance estimation}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 L Ning, X Jiang, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=XD17_dQAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 T Georgiou}} - American Control 
\b Conference (ACC)
\b0 , 2012 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Determine d2 W2 (px,py) := inf p \{ E(|x \uc0\u8722  y|2) | \u8747  x p = py, \u8747  y p = px \} (9) The metric dW2\
is known as the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  metric and, quite surprisingly, also induces a Riemannian\
structure on proba- bility densities [14], [15] \'96 a rather deep result. 
\b ...
\b0 \

\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.sci.hokudai.ac.jp/sympo/iwpt/2012_en.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf0 RIMS meeting: Potential Theory and its Related Fields}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 September 3 - 7, 2012 Research Building No. 8 Lecture Room 2, Faculty of Engineering, Kyoto University\
Organizers: Kentaro Hirata (Akita) Chair Jun Kigami (Kyoto)  Masaharu Nishio (Osaka)  Hiroaki Aikawa (Sapporo)\
Program and Abstracts  
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul pdf  - Page 16, 17, 18
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
Lp-
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance between \'b50 and \'b51 by Wp (\'b50, \'b51). 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2304508"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Combinatorial enlargement of ground-truth datasets and efficient evaluation of segmentation algorithms}}
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://vigta2012.dieei.unict.it/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ulc4 VIGTA '12}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Visual Interfaces for Ground Truth Collection in Computer Vision Applications
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 AR Shah, SR Dalal -{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dl.acm.org/inst_page.cfm?id=60003873&CFID=246164029&CFTOKEN=26687860"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs20 \cf4 RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, California}}\'85 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.acm.org/publications"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 ACM}} New York, NY, USA \'a92012\
ISBN: 978-1-4503-1405-3\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  An example of a metric to compare how different two images are the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  metric [10],\
that can be computed on 1- dimensional pixel intensity histograms or the related Earth Mover\
Distance (EMD) on superpixels which preserve geo- metric and topological structure [1]. It 
\b ...
\b0 \

\b \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=Hjq_JHLNPT0C&pg=PA35&dq=wasserstein+intitle:Random&hl=en&sa=X&ei=gfPrUPSrOrSv0AHHxIDYAg&ved=0CGkQ6AEwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Topics in Random Matrix Theory - Page 35}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Terence+Tao%22&sa=X&ei=gfPrUPSrOrSv0AHHxIDYAg&ved=0CGsQ9AgwCQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Terence Tao}}
\b0\fs24  - 2012 \
There are other interesting modes of convergence on random variables and on distributions, such as convergence in total variation norm, in the L\'e9vy-Prokhorov metric, or in 
\i Wasserstein
\i0  metric, but we will not need these concepts in this text.
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 Wasserstein 2013\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 Vasershtein 2013
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://iopscience.iop.org/0036-0279/67/5/R01"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul The Monge-Kantorovich problem: achievements, connections, and perspectives}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 VI Bogachev, AV Kolesnikov - Russian Mathematical Surveys, 2013 - iopscience.iop.org\
Page 1. The Monge-Kantorovich problem: achievements, connections, and perspectives This article\
has been downloaded from IOPscience. Please scroll down to see the full text article. 2012 Russ.\
Math. Surv. 67 785 (http://iopscience.iop.org/0036-0279/67/5/R01) 
\b ...{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=2835111149369051573&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0 \cf5 \ul \
}}
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/KP628HK67L41XR65.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul The local-global principle in commutative algebra}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 E Kunz - Introduction to Commutative Algebra and Algebraic \'85, 2013 - Springer\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Hence, by III.4.1, there is an 8 E S that annihilates all the coefficients of the matrix. But then\
At(8X) \'b7 A2(8X)- A3(8X) = 0. Theorem 1.18. (
\b Vaserstein
\b0 ) A E M(r x 8; R[X]) is equivalent to\
A(O) if and only if A is locally equivalent to A(O) for all m E Max(R). Proof. 
\b ...
\b0 \

\b \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=511rW-FUxywC&pg=PA366&dq=vasershtein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=S9LeUPrQO4m40QHe94CAAQ&ved=0CF4Q6AEwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Selected Works of Peter J. Bickel - Page 366}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1079&bih=944&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Jianqing+Fan%22&ei=S9LeUPrQO4m40QHe94CAAQ&ved=0CGAQ9AgwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Jianqing Fan}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1079&bih=944&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Ya%27acov+Ritov%22&ei=S9LeUPrQO4m40QHe94CAAQ&ved=0CGEQ9AgwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Ya'acov Ritov}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=N&tbo=d&biw=1079&bih=944&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22C.F.+Jeff+Wu%22&ei=S9LeUPrQO4m40QHe94CAAQ&ved=0CGIQ9AgwCDgU"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 C.F. Jeff Wu}} -  Springer 2013\
Calculation of the 
\i Vasershtein
\i0  distance between probability distributions on the line.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \uc0\u8234 ISBN1461455448, 9781461455448
\b \uc0\u8236 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 Vaserstein 2013
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=books&cd=1&ved=0CDUQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fjututwonderfulebooks.eklablog.com%2Fideals-and-reality-projective-modules-and-number-of-generators-of-idea-a64050559&ei=ZDnoUOiUFeqP0QG58oGYCg&usg=AFQjCNHRskqgCDn1Q9rD9ubgxNOOxBVckA&sig2=5OCzaCBtF3e5i7KY9mHtQA&bvm=bv.1355534169,d.dmQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Ideals and Reality: Projective Modules and Number of Generators of }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 Ideals\
\pard\pardeftab720

\i\fs24 \cf11 By Friedrich Ischebeck, Ravi A. Rao  Springer 2013
\i0\b0 \cf0 \
Jan 3, 2013 - A study of projective modules and their connections with topological vector bundles in a form due to 
\i Vaserstein
\i0  is included. Important subsidiary results appear in the copious exercises. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/KP628HK67L41XR65.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf5 \ul The local-global principle in commutative algebra}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 E Kunz - Introduction to Commutative Algebra and Algebraic \'85, 2013 - Springer\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Hence, by III.4.1, there is an 8 E S that annihilates all the coefficients of the matrix. But then\
At(8X) \'b7 A2(8X)- A3(8X) = 0. Theorem 1.18. (
\b Vaserstein
\b0 ) A E M(r x 8; R[X]) is equivalent to\
A(O) if and only if A is locally equivalent to A(O) for all m E Max(R). Proof. 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\
---\
\
The International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP),\
September 30 - October 3, 2012  at the Disney Coronado Springs Resort, located in Lake Buena Vista, Florida\
\
Cimpa 2012 Dakar\
Pr\'e9sentation de l'\'e9quipe de g\'e9om\'e9trie 	PDF 	Imprimer 	Envoyer\
\
----\
total 763\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 1970-76  30\
1977-82  43\
1983-86  46\
1987-88  32\
1989-91        19 + 15  + 15 =  49\
1992-94        25 + 10 +   11 =   46\
1995-97       13 +  10 + 17 =    40\
1998-2000   11 +   18 + 18 =    47\
2001-2003   11 +  17 +  19 =   47\
2004-2006    31 + 21 +  32  =  84\
2007-2009    20 + 26  +  29 =  75\
2010    46+14 +4  = 64\
2011    66+12+1+2  =  81\
2012    67  +7 = 74\
2013     0+ 3+ 2=5\
\
\
}