{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green17\blue242;\red0\green0\blue239;\red0\green0\blue239;
\red0\green0\blue240;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13860\viewh19080\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 VasersteinInTitle\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 Vaserstein in title from Math. Reviews 8 items\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vaserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=7&mx-pid=882802"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \cf2 MR0882802
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (88m:18020)}}
\f1  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=97235"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 van der Kallen, Wilberd}} Vaserstein's pre-stabilization theorem over commutative rings. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Comm_Algebra"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Comm. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=1537"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (1987), no. 3,}} 657--663. (Reviewer: Roger C. Alperin) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=18F25,%2816A54,19B10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18F25 (16A54 19B10)}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vaserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=6&mx-pid=1113961"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1113961
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (92k:19001a)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=311567"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hinson, Edward K.}} On Vaserstein's power operation on elementary orbits. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Comm_Algebra"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Comm. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=109571"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19 (1991), no. 6,}} 1851--1854. (Reviewer: Charles Weibel) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=19B99,%2820H25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B99 (20H25)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=334444"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ulc2 Simonot, Fran\'e7ois}}\cf0 \ulnone  Analyse de la stabilit\'e9 de syst\'e8mes de stockage par la m\'e9trique de Wasserstein. (French) [Analysis of the stability of storage systems using the Vaserstein metric] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Statist_Anal_Donnees"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Statist. Anal. Donn\'e9es}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=123058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16 (1991), no. 3,}} 183--201. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60K30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60K30}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vaserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=1155684"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1155684
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (92k:19001b)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=311567"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hinson, Edward K.}} On Vaserstein's power operation on elementary orbits. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Comm_Algebra"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Comm. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=114010"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20 (1992), no. 1,}} 303--307. (Reviewer: Charles Weibel) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=19B99,%2820H25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19B99 (20H25)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vaserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=1352866"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1352866
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (96j:11028)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=261545"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhang, Zhao Ji}} On a problem of Vaserstein. (Chinese) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Zhejiang_Daxue_Xuebao_Ziran_Kexue_Ban"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Zhejiang Daxue Xuebao Ziran Kexue Ban}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=136746"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 28 (1994), no. 5,}} 608--611. (Reviewer: Qi Sun) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=11C20,%2811A05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11C20 (11A05)}}\cf2 \ul   Zbl 0838.11022\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vaserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=1701386"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1701386
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2000f:60019)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=353049"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Abdellaoui, Taoufiq}} Approximation de la $L^1$-distance de Wasserstein. (French) [Approximation of $L^1$-Vaserstein distance] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=C_R_Acad_Sci_Paris_Ser_I_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris S\'e9r. I Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=175262"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 328 (1999), no. 12,}} 1203--1206. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60E05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60E05}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vaserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2473300"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2473300
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010a:32022)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=707056"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ivarsson, Bj\'f6rn}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=330461"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kutzschebauch, Frank}} A solution of Gromov's Vaserstein problem. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=C_R_Math_Acad_Sci_Paris"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 C. R. Math. Acad. Sci. Paris}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=269124"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 346 (2008), no. 23-24,}} 1239--1243. (Reviewer: Sergey Ivashkovich) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=32E10,%2815A23,15A54%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 32E10 (15A23 15A54)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=vaserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2749274"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2749274}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=189570"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, N. A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=921005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sinchuk, S. S.}} Decompositions of Dennis-Vaserstein type. (Russian) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Zap_Nauchn_Sem_SPeterburg_Otdel_Mat_Inst_Steklov_POMI"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Zap. Nauchn. Sem. S.-Peterburg. Otdel. Mat. Inst. Steklov. (POMI)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=288599"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 375 (2010), Voprosy Teorii Predstavlenii Algebr i Grupp. 19,}} 48\'9660, 210, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20G35}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mathnet.ru/eng/znsl3607"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dennis-\ulnone Vaserstein \ul type decompositions}}
\fs20  = {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mathnet.ru/rus/znsl3607"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \uc0\u1056 \u1072 \u1079 \u1083 \u1086 \u1078 \u1077 \u1085 \u1080 \u1103  \u1090 \u1080 \u1087 \u1072  \u1044 \u1077 \u1085 \u1085 \u1080 \u1089 \u1072 \'96\u1042 \u1072 \u1089 \u1077 \u1088 \u1096 \u1090 \u1077 \u1081 \u1085 \u1072 }}
\fs24 \cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \ulnone Vasershtein in
\f0  title from Math. Reviews\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f1 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \ulnone MR0583946
\b0  
\b (82e:62057)
\b0   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=213429"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Papantoni-Kazakos, P.}} The Vasershtein distance as the stability criterion in robust estimation. \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=IEEE_Trans_Inform_Theory"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory}} 
\b 26 
\b0 (1980), no. 5, 620--625.  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62F35"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62F35}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \ulnone Vasserstein
\f0  in title from Math. Reviews\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f1 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=1015898"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1015898
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (90k:82006)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=262017"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kirillov, A. B.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=143750"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\uc0\u259 dulescu, D. C.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=168515"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Styer, D. F.}} Vasserstein distances in two-state systems. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Statist_Phys"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Statist. Phys.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=72192"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 56 (1989), no. 5-6,}} 931--937. (Reviewer: Milos Zahradnik) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=82A05,%2882A68%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 82A05 (82A68)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Vasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=328982"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR0328982
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (48 #7324)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=223504"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vallander, S. S.}} Calculations of the Vasser\'9ate\uc0\u301 n distance between probability distributions on the line. (Russian) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Teor_Verojatnost_i_Primenen"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Teor. Verojatnost. i Primenen.}} 
\b 18 
\b0 (1973), 824--827. (Reviewer: I. Csiszar) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B05}}
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\fs30 \cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews
\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 1978-1999  17 items\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=74&mx-pid=536824"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR0536824
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (81e:60003)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=548194"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Szulga, Alicja}} On the Wasserstein metric. 
\i Transactions of the Eighth Prague Conference on Information Theory, Statistical Decision Functions, Random Processes (Prague, 1978), Vol. B, 
\i0 pp. 267--273, 
\i Reidel, Dordrecht-Boston, Mass.,
\i0  1978. (Reviewer: V. J. Paulauskas) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05,%2890A05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul 60B05 (90A05)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=73&mx-pid=752258"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR0752258
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (85m:60009)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=197448"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Givens, Clark R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=161170"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Shortt, Rae Michael}} A class of Wasserstein metrics for probability distributions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Michigan_Math_J"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Michigan Math. J.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=15382"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 31 (1984), no. 2,}} 231--240. (Reviewer: R. M. Dudley) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B10,%2860E15%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B10 (60E15)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=72&mx-pid=795791"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR0795791
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (86m:60004)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=151890"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 R\'fcschendorf, Ludger}} The Wasserstein distance and approximation theorems. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Z_Wahrsch_Verw_Gebiete"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Z. Wahrsch. Verw. Gebiete}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=16762"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 70 (1985), no. 1,}} 117--129. (Reviewer: S. T. Rachev) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60A10,%2860B10,60G05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60A10 (60B10 60G05)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=71&mx-pid=1009457"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1009457
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (90k:60029)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=53205"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cuesta, Juan Antonio}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n, Carlos}} Notes on the Wasserstein metric in Hilbert spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=70731"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 17 (1989), no. 3,}} 1264--1276. (Reviewer: S. T. Rachev) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60E05,%2860B05,60B12%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60E05 (60B05 60B12)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=70&mx-pid=1074632"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1074632
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (92d:60007)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=143415"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rachev, S. T.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=161170"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Shortt, R. M.}} Duality theorems for Kantorovich-Rubinstein and Wasserstein functionals. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Dissertationes_Math_Rozprawy_Mat"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Dissertationes Math. (Rozprawy Mat.)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=103295"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 299 (1990), }}35 pp. (Reviewer: Donald L. Cohn) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B10,%2860F05,60F17%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B10 (60F05 60F17)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=69&mx-pid=1127323"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1127323
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (93a:62081)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=314307"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gelbrich, Matthias}} On a formula for the $L^2$ Wasserstein metric between measures on Euclidean and Hilbert spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Math_Nachr"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Math. Nachr.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=109896"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 147 (1990), }}185--203. (Reviewer: Juan A. Cuesta-Albertos) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62H05,%2860B11,62E10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62H05 (60B11 62E10)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=68&mx-pid=1209844"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1209844
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (93m:60194)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=334444"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Simonot, Fran\'e7ois}} Analyse de la stabilit\'e9 de syst\'e8mes de stockage par la m\'e9trique de Wasserstein. (French) [Analysis of the stability of storage systems using the Vaserstein metric] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Statist_Anal_Donnees"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Statist. Anal. Donn\'e9es}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=123058"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16 (1991), no. 3,}} 183--201. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60K30"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60K30}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=67&mx-pid=1165653"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1165653
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (93h:60010)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=53205"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cuesta, Juan A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n, Carlos}} A review on strong convergence of weighted sums of random elements based on Wasserstein metrics. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Statist_Plann_Inference"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Statist. Plann. Inference}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=115977"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 30 (1992), no. 3,}} 359--370. (Reviewer: A. Bozorgnia) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B12,%2860B11%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B12 (60B11)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=66&mx-pid=1207216"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1207216
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (94a:60019)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=333780"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tuero, Araceli}} On the stochastic convergence of representations based on Wasserstein metrics. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=122986"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 21 (1993), no. 1,}} 72--85. (Reviewer: Ludger R\'fcschendorf) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60E05,%2860B10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60E05 (60B10)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=65&mx-pid=1297788"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1297788
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (95i:60026)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=53205"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cuesta-Albertos, Juan A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n-Bea, Carlos}} Stochastic convergence through Skorohod representation theorems and Wasserstein distances. First International Conference on Stochastic Geometry, Convex Bodies and Empirical Measures (Palermo, 1993). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Rend_Circ_Mat_Palermo_2_Suppl"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Rend. Circ. Mat. Palermo (2) Suppl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=135322"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 No. 35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=135322"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 (1994), }}89--113. (Reviewer: Mindaugas Bloznelis) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F15,%2860B11,60B12,60F25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F15 (60B11 60B12 60F25)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=64&mx-pid=1329874"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1329874
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (96d:60020)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=197174"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Horowitz, Joseph}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=98270"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Karandikar, Rajeeva L.}} Mean rates of convergence of empirical measures in the Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Comput_Appl_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Comput. Appl. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=140362"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 55 (1994), no. 3,}} 261--273. (Reviewer: Joseph E. Yukich) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60D05,%2860C05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60D05 (60C05)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=63&mx-pid=1385397"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1385397
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (97d:60025)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=53205"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cuesta-Albertos, J. A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n-Bea, C.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=333780"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tuero-Diaz, A.}} On lower bounds for the $L^2$-Wasserstein metric in a Hilbert space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Theoret_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Theoret. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=148074"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 9 (1996), no. 2,}} 263--283. (Reviewer: Ludger R\'fcschendorf) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60E15}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=62&mx-pid=1485526"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1485526
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (98g:60105)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=314307"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gelbrich, Matthias}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=143415"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rachev, Svetlozar T.}} Discretization for stochastic differential equations, $L^p$ Wasserstein metrics, and econometrical models. 
\i Distributions with fixed marginals and related topics (Seattle, WA, 1993), 
\i0 97--119, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=IMS_Lecture_Notes_Monogr_Ser"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 IMS Lecture Notes Monogr. Ser., 28,}} 
\i Inst. Math. Statist., Hayward, CA,
\i0  1996. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60H10,%2860F17%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60H10 (60F17)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=61&mx-pid=1698999"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1698999
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2000g:60034)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=648625"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 del Barrio, Eustasio}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=73785"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gin\'e9, Evarist}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n, Carlos}} Central limit theorems for the Wasserstein distance between the empirical and the true distributions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=175176"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 27 (1999), no. 2,}} 1009--1071. (Reviewer: Lajos Horv\'e1th) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F05,%2860B12,62E20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F05 (60B12 62E20)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=60&mx-pid=1701386"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR1701386
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2000f:60019)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=353049"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Abdellaoui, Taoufiq}} Approximation de la $L^1$-distance de Wasserstein. (French) [Approximation of $L^1$-Vaserstein distance] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=C_R_Acad_Sci_Paris_Ser_I_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris S\'e9r. I Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=175262"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 328 (1999), no. 12,}} 1203--1206. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60E05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60E05}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=59&mx-pid=1726488"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1726488
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2000k:65173)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=101615"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kinderlehrer, David}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=180170"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Walkington, Noel J.}} Approximation of parabolic equations using the Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=M2AN_Math_Model_Numer_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 M2AN Math. Model. Numer. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=178635"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 33 (1999), no. 4,}} 837--852. (Reviewer: Wilfrid Gangbo) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=65M60,%2835A35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 65M60 (35A35)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=58&mx-pid=1740113"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1740113
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2001a:60024)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=648625"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 del Barrio, Eustasio}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=53205"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cuesta-Albertos, Juan A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n, Carlos}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=658847"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rodr\'edguez-Rodr\'edguez, Jes\'fas M.}} Tests of goodness of fit based on the $L_2$-Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Statist"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Statist.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=179135"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 27 (1999), no. 4,}} 1230--1239. (Reviewer: Lajos Horv\'e1th) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F05,%2860F25,62E20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F05 (60F25 62E20)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 \ulnone Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2000-2003   11 items 
\f1 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=57&mx-pid=1769953"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1769953
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2001b:60008)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=642943"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Belili, Nacereddine}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=83645"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Heinich, Henri}} Distances de Wasserstein et de Zolotarev. (French) [Wasserstein and Zolotarev distances] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=C_R_Acad_Sci_Paris_Ser_I_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris S\'e9r. I Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=184119"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 330 (2000), no. 9,}} 811--814. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B10,%2860E05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B10 (60E05)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=56&mx-pid=1784174"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR1784174
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2002b:60055)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=257581"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mikami, T.}} Dynamical systems in the variational formulation of the Fokker-Planck equation by the Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Appl_Math_Optim"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Appl. Math. Optim.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=186164"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 42 (2000), no. 2,}} 203--227. (Reviewer: Shuenn Jyi Sheu) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F15,%2860H30,82C35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F15 (60H30 82C35)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=55&mx-pid=1788425"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR1788425
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2002k:94006)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gangbo, Wilfrid}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=333976"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 McCann, Robert J.}} Shape recognition via Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Quart_Appl_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Quart. Appl. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=186694"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 58 (2000), no. 4,}} 705--737. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=94A08,%2828A35,49Q20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 94A08 (28A35 49Q20)}}\cf2 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1039.49038&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Zbl 1039.49038}} \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=54&mx-pid=1865668"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR1865668
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2002h:49069)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=326754"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Benamou, J. D.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=197109"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Brenier, Y.}} Mixed $L^2$-Wasserstein optimal mapping between prescribed density functions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Optim_Theory_Appl"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Optim. Theory Appl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=196096"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 111 (2001), no. 2,}} 255--271. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2849M30,65K10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49Q20 (49M30 65K10)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=53&mx-pid=1878316"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1878316
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2003d:46087)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=36630"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Biane, P.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=179095"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Voiculescu, D.}} A free probability analogue of the Wasserstein metric on the trace-state space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Geom_Funct_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Geom. Funct. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=197886"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11 (2001), no. 6,}} 1125--1138. (Reviewer: Dimitri Y. Shlyakhtenko) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=46L54"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 46L54}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=52&mx-pid=1915779"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR1915779
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2003d:62061)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=182150"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 de Wet, T.}} Goodness-of-fit tests for location and scale families based on a weighted $L_2$-Wasserstein distance measure. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Test"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Test}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=202230"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11 (2002), no. 1,}} 89--107. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62F05,%2860G15,62E20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62F05 (60G15 62E20)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=51&mx-pid=1936827"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1936827
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2003h:28006)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=642943"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Belili, Nacereddine}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=83645"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Heinich, Henri}} Approximation pour la distance de Wasserstein. (French) [Approximation for the Wasserstein distance] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=C_R_Math_Acad_Sci_Paris"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 C. R. Math. Acad. Sci. Paris}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=205083"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 335 (2002), no. 6,}} 537--540. (Reviewer: Klaus D. Schmidt) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=28A33,%2860A10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 28A33 (60A10)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=50&mx-pid=2058979"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2058979
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2005k:62030)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=53205"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cuesta-Albertos, Juan A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n Bea, Carlos}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=658847"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Rodr\'edguez Rodr\'edguez, Jes\'fas M.}} Shape of a distribution through the $L_2$-Wasserstein distance. 
\i Distributions with given marginals and statistical modelling, 
\i0 51--61, 
\i Kluwer Acad. Publ., Dordrecht,
\i0  2002. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62E10,%2862E17,62H05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62E10 (62E17 62H05)}}
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=49&mx-pid=1964961"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR1964961
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2004b:60060)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=648625"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 del Barrio, Eustasio}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=73785"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gin\'e9, Evarist}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=121365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Matr\'e1n, Carlos}} Correction: ``Central limit theorems for the Wasserstein distance between the empirical and the true distributions'' [Ann. Probab. 
\b 27
\b0  (1999), no. 2, 1009--1071; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?r=1&pg1=CNO&s1=1698999&loc=fromrevtext"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 MR1698999 (2000g:60034)}}]. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=208491"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 31 (2003), no. 2,}} 1142--1143. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F05,%2860B12,62E20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F05 (60B12 62E20)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=48&mx-pid=1983782"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR1983782
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2004c:49027)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=45365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carlen, E. A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gangbo, W.}} Constrained steepest descent in the 2-Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_of_Math_2"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. of Math. (2)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=210904"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 157 (2003), no. 3,}} 807--846. (Reviewer: Luigi De Pascale) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49J45,%2835Q99,49J10,60H15,82C35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49J45 (35Q99 49J10 60H15 82C35)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=47&mx-pid=2073437"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2073437
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2005f:60056)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=201235"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Haeusler, Erich}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=120985"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mason, David M.}} Asymptotic distributions of trimmed Wasserstein distances between the true and the empirical distribution function. 
\i Stochastic inequalities and applications, 
\i0 279--298, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Progr_Probab"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Progr. Probab., 56,}} 
\i Birkh\'e4user, Basel,
\i0  2003. (Reviewer: Lajos Horv\'e1th) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F05,%2862G30%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F05 (62G30)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2004-2006 12  items \

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=46&mx-pid=2048566"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2048566
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2005b:82075)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=45365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carlen, E. A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gangbo, W.}} Solution of a model Boltzmann equation via steepest descent in the 2-Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Arch_Ration_Mech_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Arch. Ration. Mech. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=218616"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 172 (2004), no. 1,}} 21--64. (Reviewer: Laurent E. Gosse) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=82C40,%2835D05,35K15,82C31%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 82C40 (35D05 35K15 82C31)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=45&mx-pid=2094049"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2094049
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2005k:60231)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=674214"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gibbs, Alison L.}} Convergence in the Wasserstein metric for Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithms with applications to image restoration. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Stoch_Models"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Stoch. Models}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=222850"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 20 (2004), no. 4,}} 473--492. (Reviewer: John P. Lehoczky) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J20,%2862M40%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60J20 (62M40)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=44&mx-pid=2091496"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2091496
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2005h:35304)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=701634"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Di Francesco, Marco}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=120080"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Markowich, Peter A.}} Entropy dissipation and Wasserstein metric methods for the viscous Burgers' equation: convergence to diffusive waves. 
\i Partial differential equations and inverse problems, 
\i0 145--165, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Contemp_Math"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Contemp. Math., 362,}} 
\i Amer. Math. Soc., Providence, RI,
\i0  2004. (Reviewer: Alp O. Eden) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35Q53,%2835B40,35K55%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35Q53 (35B40 35K55)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=42&mx-pid=2163983"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2163983
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2006c:35147)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=665904"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carrillo, J. A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=173700"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Toscani, G.}} Wasserstein metric and large-time asymptotics of nonlinear diffusion equations. 
\i New trends in mathematical physics, 
\i0 234--244, 
\i World Sci. Publ., Hackensack, NJ,
\i0  2004. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K57,%2835B40,45K05,76T25,82C40,82C70%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35K57 (35B40 45K05 76T25 82C40 82C70)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=41&mx-pid=2121458"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2121458
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2005k:62135)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=648625"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 del Barrio, Eustasio}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=73785"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gin\'e9, Evarist}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=176385"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Utzet, Frederic}} Asymptotics for $L_2$ functionals of the empirical quantile process, with applications to tests of fit based on weighted Wasserstein distances. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Bernoulli"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Bernoulli}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=226514"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11 (2005), no. 1,}} 131--189. (Reviewer: Lajos Horv\'e1th) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62G30,%2860F05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62G30 (60F05)}}\cf2 \ul . {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1063.62072&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ulc3 Zbl 1063.62072}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=40&mx-pid=2192294"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2192294
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2007c:28003)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=600834"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Otto, Felix}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=654309"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Westdickenberg, Michael}} Eulerian calculus for the contraction in the Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=SIAM_J_Math_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 SIAM J. Math. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=237914"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37 (2005), no. 4,}} 1227--1255 (electronic). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=28A33"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 28A33}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=39&mx-pid=2305058"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2305058}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=25430"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ambrosio, L.}} Gradient flows in metric spaces and in the Wasserstein space of probability measures. (Italian) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Rend_Accad_Naz_Sci_XL_Mem_Mat_Appl_5"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Rend. Accad. Naz. Sci. XL Mem. Mat. Appl. (5)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=250935"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 29 (2005), no. 1,}} 15--33. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=28A33,%2849Q20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 28A33 (49Q20)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=43&mx-pid=2148889"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2148889
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2006i:35052)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=25430"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ambrosio, Luigi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=756762"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gigli, Nicola}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=336952"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}} Gradient flows with metric and differentiable structures, and applications to the Wasserstein space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Atti_Accad_Naz_Lincei_Cl_Sci_Fis_Mat_Natur_Rend_Lincei_9_Mat_Appl"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Atti Accad. Naz. Lincei Cl. Sci. Fis. Mat. Natur. Rend. Lincei (9) Mat. Appl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=230091"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (2004), no. 3-4,}} 327--343. (Reviewer: Gong Qing Zhang) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35J20,%2828A33,35A15%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35J20 (28A33 35A15)}}
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=38&mx-pid=2209130"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2209130
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2006j:76121)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=665904"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carrillo, Jos\'e9 A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=333976"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 McCann, Robert J.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=602357"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Villani, C\'e9dric}} Contractions in the 2-Wasserstein length space and thermalization of granular media. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Arch_Ration_Mech_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Arch. Ration. Mech. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=239993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 179 (2006), no. 2,}} 217--263. (Reviewer: Beno\'88\uc0\u305 t P. Desjardins) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=76M30,%2835K57,58E50,76T25,82C40%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 76M30 (35K57 58E50 76T25 82C40)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=37&mx-pid=2250166"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2250166
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2007j:49051)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=751015"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Brancolini, A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=43890"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Buttazzo, G.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=764165"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Santambrogio, F.}} Path functionals over Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Eur_Math_Soc_JEMS"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Eur. Math. Soc. (JEMS)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=244364"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 8 (2006), no. 3,}} 415--434. (Reviewer: Luigi De Pascale) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2828A33,49J45,58E10,90B10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49Q20 (28A33 49J45 58E10 90B10)}}\cf2 \ul . {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1130.49036&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ulc4 Zbl 1130.49036}}\cf0 \ulnone  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=36&mx-pid=2274850"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2274850
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2008f:62025)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=31005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Barbour, A. D.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=245168"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Xia, Aihua}} On Stein's factors for Poisson approximation in Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Bernoulli"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Bernoulli}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=247809"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 12 (2006), no. 6,}} 943--954. (Reviewer: Dominic Schuhmacher) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62E17"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62E17}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=35&mx-pid=2287892"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2287892
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2007k:35315)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=665904"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carrillo, Jos\'e9 A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=701634"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Di Francesco, Marco}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=627795"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lattanzio, Corrado}} Contractivity of Wasserstein metrics and asymptotic profiles for scalar conservation laws. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Differential_Equations"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Differential Equations}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=250288"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 231 (2006), no. 2,}} 425--458. (Reviewer: Yu. G. Rykov) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35L65,%2835B40%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35L65 (35B40)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 \ulnone \
Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2007  5 items \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=34&mx-pid=2255281"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2255281
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2007k:35255)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=665904"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carrillo, J. A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=701634"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Di Francesco, M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=173700"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Toscani, G.}} Strict contractivity of the 2-Wasserstein distance for the porous medium equation by mass-centering. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Proc_Amer_Math_Soc"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Proc. Amer. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=245644"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 135 (2007), no. 2,}} 353--363 (electronic). (Reviewer: Ross Pinsky) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K57,%2835B40,35K15%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35K57 (35B40 35K15)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=33&mx-pid=2267755"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2267755
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2007k:49001)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=795338"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lisini, Stefano}} Characterization of absolutely continuous curves in Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Calc_Var_Partial_Differential_Equations"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Calc. Var. Partial Differential Equations}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=246752"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 28 (2007), no. 1,}} 85--120. (Reviewer: Paul Raynaud de Fitte) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49J10,%2828A33,35Q35,49Q20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49J10 (28A33 35Q35 49Q20)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=32&mx-pid=2314463"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2314463
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2008m:49206)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=25430"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ambrosio, Luigi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=764165"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Santambrogio, Filippo}} Necessary optimality conditions for geodesics in weighted Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Atti_Accad_Naz_Lincei_Cl_Sci_Fis_Mat_Natur_Rend_Lincei_9_Mat_Appl"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Atti Accad. Naz. Lincei Cl. Sci. Fis. Mat. Natur. Rend. Lincei (9) Mat. Appl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=252177"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 18 (2007), no. 1,}} 23--37. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2835K55,49K05,76M30,76N10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49Q20 (35K55 49K05 76M30 76N10)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=31&mx-pid=2339442"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2339442
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009d:35215)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=665904"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carrillo, J. A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=701634"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Di Francesco, M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=627795"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lattanzio, C.}} Contractivity and asymptotics in Wasserstein metrics for viscous nonlinear scalar conservation laws. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Boll_Unione_Mat_Ital_Sez_B_Artic_Ric_Mat_8"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Boll. Unione Mat. Ital. Sez. B Artic. Ric. Mat. (8)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=254480"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 10 (2007), no. 2,}} 277--292. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35L65,%2828A33%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35L65 (28A33)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=30&mx-pid=2343987"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2343987
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2008f:35211)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=741915"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tudorascu, Adrian}} Wasserstein kernels for one-dimensional diffusion problems. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Nonlinear_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Nonlinear Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=255345"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 67 (2007), no. 9,}} 2553--2572. (Reviewer: Toka Diagana) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K57,%2835D05,35R35,49M25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35K57 (35D05 35R35 49M25)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2008 16 items  (see VinTitle2 for for other 13 items)\

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=29&mx-pid=2350420"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2350420
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009e:60010)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=49910"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Clement, Philippe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=57030"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Desch, Wolfgang}} An elementary proof of the triangle inequality for the Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Proc_Amer_Math_Soc"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Proc. Amer. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=256884"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 136 (2008), no. 1,}} 333--339 (electronic). (Reviewer: Luigi De Pascale) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05,%2849Q20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B05 (49Q20)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=28&mx-pid=2361303"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2361303
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009b:37101)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=25430"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ambrosio, Luigi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gangbo, Wilfred}} Hamiltonian ODEs in the Wasserstein space of probability measures. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Comm_Pure_Appl_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Comm. Pure Appl. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=257609"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 61 (2008), no. 1,}} 18--53. (Reviewer: C\'e9dric Villani) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=37J05,%2828A33,34F05,49J52,60B10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37J05 (28A33 34F05 49J52 60B10)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=27&mx-pid=2358290"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2358290
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009b:58014)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=116090"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lott, John}} Some geometric calculations on Wasserstein space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Comm_Math_Phys"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Comm. Math. Phys.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=257810"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 277 (2008), no. 2,}} 423--437. (Reviewer: C\'e9dric Villani) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=58B20,%2858J65%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 58B20 (58J65)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=26&mx-pid=2386101"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2386101
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009g:60007)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=336334"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Decreusefond, L.}} Wasserstein distance on configuration space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Potential_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Potential Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=260800"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 28 (2008), no. 3,}} 283--300. (Reviewer: Ali S\'fcleyman \'dcst\'fcnel) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05,%2860H07%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B05 (60H07)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=25&mx-pid=2389987"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2389987
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2008m:35140)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=741915"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tudorascu, Adrian}} On the Jordan-Kinderlehrer-Otto variational scheme and constrained optimization in the Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Calc_Var_Partial_Differential_Equations"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Calc. Var. Partial Differential Equations}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=261017"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 32 (2008), no. 2,}} 155--173. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K15,%2835A15,35A35,46E35,46N20,49J45,49M25%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35K15 (35A15 35A35 46E35 46N20 49J45 49M25)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=24&mx-pid=2395521"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2395521
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009c:35041)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=701634"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Di Francesco, Marco}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=825191"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Wunsch, Marcus}} Large time behavior in Wasserstein spaces and relative entropy for bipolar drift-diffusion-Poisson models. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Monatsh_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Monatsh. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=262606"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 154 (2008), no. 1,}} 39--50. (Reviewer: Fucai Li) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35G25,%2835B40,45M05,76X05,82D37%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35G25 (35B40 45M05 76X05 82D37)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=23&mx-pid=2403310"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2403310
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010a:49064)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=660238"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Champion, Thierry}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=645001"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 De Pascale, Luigi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=636406"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Juutinen, Petri}} The $\\infty$-Wasserstein distance: local solutions and existence of optimal transport maps. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=SIAM_J_Math_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 SIAM J. Math. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=263264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 40 (2008), no. 1,}} 1--20. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2849K30%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49Q20 (49K30)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=22&mx-pid=2417812"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2417812
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009e:53038)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=794414"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Figalli, A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=841634"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Juillet, N.}} Absolute continuity of Wasserstein geodesics in the Heisenberg group. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Funct_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Funct. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=263992"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 255 (2008), no. 1,}} 133--141. (Reviewer: C\'e9dric Villani) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=53C17,%2822E25,49Q15%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53C17 (22E25 49Q15)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=21&mx-pid=2443374"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2443374
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010b:60009)}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=49910"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cl\'e9ment, Philippe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=57030"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Desch, Wolfgang}} Wasserstein metric and subordination. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Studia_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Studia Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=266760"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 189 (2008), no. 1,}} 35--52. (Reviewer: Paul Raynaud de Fitte) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05,%2828A33,47D06,54E35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B05 (28A33 47D06 54E35)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=20&mx-pid=2452882"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2452882
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2009k:58072)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=853443"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Daneri, Sara}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=336952"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}} Eulerian calculus for the displacement convexity in the Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=SIAM_J_Math_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 SIAM J. Math. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=266688"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 40 (2008), no. 3,}} 1104--1122. (Reviewer: Chlo\'e9 Jimenez) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=58J65,%2849J10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 58J65 (49J10)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=19&mx-pid=2478676"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2478676}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=664196"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hairer, Martin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=624365"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Mattingly, Jonathan C.}} Spectral gaps in Wasserstein distances and the 2D stochastic Navier-Stokes equations. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=269484"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 36 (2008), no. 6,}} 2050--2091. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35Q35,%2835R60,47D07,60H15,76D05,76M35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35Q35 (35R60 47D07 60H15 76D05 76M35)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=18&mx-pid=2482206"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2482206}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=25430"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ambrosio, Luigi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=756762"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gigli, Nicola}} Construction of the parallel transport in the Wasserstein space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Methods_Appl_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Methods Appl. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=269728"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (2008), no. 1,}} 1--29. (Reviewer: Koji Kikuchi) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2828A33,35K55,47J35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49Q20 (28A33 35K55 47J35)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=17&mx-pid=2483740"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2483740}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=758722"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Bolley, F.}} Separability and completeness for the Wasserstein distance. 
\i S\'e9minaire de probabilit\'e9s XLI, 
\i0 371--377, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Lecture_Notes_in_Math"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lecture Notes in Math., 1934,}} 
\i Springer, Berlin,
\i0  2008. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B05}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=16&mx-pid=2481677"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2481677}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gangbo, Wilfrid}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=773084"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nguyen, Truyen}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=741915"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tudorascu, Adrian}} Hamilton-Jacobi equations in the Wasserstein space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Methods_Appl_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Methods Appl. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=270825"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (2008), no. 2,}} 155--183. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49L25,%2847Jxx,82C40%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49L25 (47Jxx 82C40)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=15&mx-pid=2487455"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2487455}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=865487"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Walczuk, Anna}} Central limit theorem for an additive functional of a Markov process, stable in the Wesserstein metric. [Central limit theorem for an additive functional of a Markov process, stable in the Wasserstein metric] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Univ_Mariae_CurieSklodowska_Sect_A"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Univ. Mariae Curie-Sk
\f2\i0 \uc0\u410 
\f1\i odowska Sect. A}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=271428"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62 (2008), }}149--159. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J25,%2860F05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60J25 (60F05)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=14&mx-pid=2509579"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2509579}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=748096"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Verde, Rosanna}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=684724"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Irpino, Antonio}} Comparing histogram data using a Mahalanobis-Wasserstein distance. 
\i COMPSTAT 2008---Proceedings in Computational Statistics, 
\i0 77--89, 
\i Physica-Verlag/Springer, Heidelberg,
\i0  2008. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62G09,%2862H11%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62G09 (62H11)}}\cf2 \ul . {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1147.62054&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ulc3 Zbl 1147.62054}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2009 15 items (see VinTitle2 for other 17 items)\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2009&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2713745"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2713745}} Kim, Hwa Kil; Hamiltonian systems and the calculus of differential forms on the Wasserstein space. Thesis (Ph.D.)\'96Georgia Institute of Technology. 2009. 87 pp. ISBN: 978-1109-37242-7, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/proquest.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 \ul \ulc2 ProQuest LLC}}
\i ,
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#theses"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Thesis}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2009&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2599206"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2599206
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2011d:60108)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=155450"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schachermayer, Walter}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=271097"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schmock, Uwe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=654648"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Teichmann, Josef}} Non-monotone convergence in the quadratic Wasserstein distance. 
\i S\'e9minaire de Probabilit\'e9s XLII, 
\i0 131\'96136, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Lecture_Notes_in_Math"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lecture Notes in Math., 1979,}} 
\i Springer, Berlin,
\i0  2009. (Reviewer: Liviu Constantin Florescu), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F99,%2828A99,91B24%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F99 (28A99 91B24)}}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=13&mx-pid=2503990"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2503990}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=715509"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Ohta, Shin-ichi}} Gradient flows on Wasserstein spaces over compact Alexandrov spaces. 
\i Amer. J. Math.
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=272007"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 131 (2009), no. 2,}} 475--516. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=53Cxx,%2846Txx%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53Cxx (46Txx)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=12&mx-pid=2501322"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2501322}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=245168"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Xia, Aihua}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=706059"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zhang, Fuxi}} Polynomial birth-death distribution approximation in the Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Theoret_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Theoret. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=272603"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22 (2009), no. 2,}} 294--310. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F05,%2860J27%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60F05 (60J27)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=11&mx-pid=2505360"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2505360}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gangbo, W.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=773084"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nguyen, T.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=741915"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Tudorascu, A.}} Euler-Poisson systems as action-minimizing paths in the Wasserstein space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Arch_Ration_Mech_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Arch. Ration. Mech. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=273180"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 192 (2009), no. 3,}} 419--452. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=37J50,%2835G30,37N20,58Exx%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37J50 (35G30 37N20 58Exx)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=10&mx-pid=2523014"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2523014}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=743645"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Petrelli, Luca}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=351502"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kearsley, Anthony J.}} Wasserstein metric convergence method for Fokker-Planck equations with point controls. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Appl_Math_Lett"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Appl. Math. Lett.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=273813"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 22 (2009), no. 7,}} 1130--1135. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K20,%2849J45%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35K20 (49J45)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=9&mx-pid=2520126"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2520126}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=873912"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 D\'f6ring, Maik}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=357144"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stannat, Wilhelm}} The logarithmic Sobolev inequality for the Wasserstein diffusion. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Probab_Theory_Related_Fields"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Probab. Theory Related Fields}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=274763"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 145 (2009), no. 1-2,}} 189--209. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=31C25,%2828Axx,35P15,47D07%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 31C25 (28Axx 35P15 47D07)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=8&mx-pid=2537551"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2537551}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=669301"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 von Renesse, Max-K.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=241875"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sturm, Karl-Theodor}} Entropic measure and Wasserstein diffusion. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=274727"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37 (2009), no. 3,}} 1114--1191. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60G57,%2835R60,47D07,58J65,60J60%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60G57 (35R60 47D07 58J65 60J60)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=7&mx-pid=2542579"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2542579}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=795338"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lisini, Stefano}} Nonlinear diffusion equations with variable coefficients as gradient flows in Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=ESAIM_Control_Optim_Calc_Var"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 ESAIM Control Optim. Calc. Var.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=275197"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (2009), no. 3,}} 712--740. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K57,%2828Axx,35B40,35K15%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35K57 (28Axx 35B40 35K15)}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=6&mx-pid=2529165"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2529165}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=293338"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dostoglou, S.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=784539"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kahl, J. D.}} Approximation of homogeneous measures in the 2-Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Math_Phys_Electron_J"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Math. Phys. Electron. J.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=275355"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (2009), }}Paper 1, 19 pp. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B10,%2828Axx,35A35,49Q20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B10 (28Axx 35A35 49Q20)}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=5&mx-pid=2543873"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2543873}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=742522"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Joulin, Ald\'e9ric}} A new Poisson-type deviation inequality for Markov jump processes with positive Wasserstein curvature. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Bernoulli"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Bernoulli}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=275431"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (2009), no. 2,}} 532--549. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J75"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60J75}}\cf2 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2543874"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ulnone MR2543874}}\cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=752323"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Schuhmacher, Dominic}} Stein's method and Poisson process approximation for a class of Wasserstein metrics. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Bernoulli"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Bernoulli}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=275431"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 15 (2009), no. 2,}} 550--568. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62E17"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 62E17}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=2533926"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2533926}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=309542"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gianazza, Ugo}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=336952"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=173700"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Toscani, Giuseppe}} The Wasserstein gradient flow of the Fisher information and the quantum drift-diffusion equation. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Arch_Ration_Mech_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Arch. Ration. Mech. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=275817"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 194 (2009), no. 1,}} 133--220. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35Qxx"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35Qxx}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2540269"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2540269}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=880864"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Natile, Luca}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=336952"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}} A Wasserstein approach to the one-dimensional sticky particle system. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=SIAM_J_Math_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 SIAM J. Math. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=276479"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 41 (2009), no. 4,}} 1340--1365. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35L65,%2835L45,35Q35,76N15,82C22%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35L65 (35L45 35Q35 76N15 82C22)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=TI&pg5=RT&pg6=ALLF&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=Wasserstein&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2555474"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2555474}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=715459"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hauray, Maxime}} Wasserstein distances for vortices approximation of Euler-type equations. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Math_Models_Methods_Appl_Sci"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Math. Models Methods Appl. Sci.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=276703"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 19 (2009), no. 8,}} 1357--1384. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35Q31,%2835L65%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35Q31 (35L65)}}\
\
      \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2010. 14 items  (see VinTitle2 for other 20  items )\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2672546"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2672546}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=795338"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Lisini, Stefano}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=752369"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Marigonda, Antonio}} On a class of modified Wasserstein distances induced by concave mobility functions defined on bounded intervals. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Manuscripta_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 Manuscripta Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=284951"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 133 (2010), no. 1-2,}} 197\'96224, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2849J27,49J40%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 49Q20 (49J27 49J40)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=5&mx-pid=2655156"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2655156}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=684724"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Irpino, Antonio}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=748096"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Verde, Rosanna}} Clustering linear models using Wasserstein distance. 
\i Data analysis and classification, 
\i0 41\'9648, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Stud_Classification_Data_Anal_Knowledge_Organ"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Stud. Classification Data Anal. Knowledge Organ.,}} 
\i Springer, Berlin,
\i0  2010, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62H30,%2862J05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 62H30 (62J05)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=6&mx-pid=2652014"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2652014}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=902819"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Portegies, Jacobus W.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=366475"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Peletier, Mark A.}} Well-posedness of a parabolic moving-boundary problem in the setting of Wasserstein gradient flows. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Interfaces_Free_Bound"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 Interfaces Free Bound.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=283487"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 12 (2010), no. 2,}} 121\'96150, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35Rxx,%2880Axx,82Dxx%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 35Rxx (80Axx 82Dxx)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=7&mx-pid=2644919"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2644919}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=621739"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Bianchini, S.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=751015"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Brancolini, A.}} Estimates on path functionals over Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=SIAM_J_Math_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 SIAM J. Math. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=282818"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 42 (2010), no. 3,}} 1179\'961217, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2828A78,49K27,93B03%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 49Q20 (28A78 49K27 93B03)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=8&mx-pid=2648273"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2648273}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=899165"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Takatsu, Asuka}} On Wasserstein geometry of Gaussian measures. 
\i Probabilistic approach to geometry, 
\i0 463\'96472, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Adv_Stud_Pure_Math"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Adv. Stud. Pure Math., 57,}} 
\i Math. Soc. Japan, Tokyo,
\i0  2010. (Reviewer: Jonathan Henry Jordan), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60D05,%2828A33%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 60D05 (28A33)}}\cf5 \ul \ulc5 . \cf2 \ulnone Zbl 1206.60016   \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=11&mx-pid=2641767"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2641767}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=897451"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Erbar, Matthias}} The heat equation on manifolds as a gradient flow in the Wasserstein space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Inst_Henri_Poincare_Probab_Stat"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 Ann. Inst. Henri Poincar\'e9 Probab. Stat.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=281919"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 46 (2010), no. 1,}} 1\'9623, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35A15,%2858J35,58J65,60J60%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 35A15 (58J35 58J65 60J60)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=13&mx-pid=2606878"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2606878
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2011b:60224)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=866178"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Andres, Sebastian}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=669301"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul von Renesse, Max-K.}} Particle approximation of the Wasserstein diffusion. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Funct_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 J. Funct. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=281560"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 258 (2010), no. 11,}} 3879\'963905. (Reviewer: Nikita Y. Ratanov), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60H10,%2860J25,60J68,60K35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 60H10 (60J25 60J68 60K35)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=14&mx-pid=2606871"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2606871}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=724968"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Kuwada, Kazumasa}} Duality on gradient estimates and Wasserstein controls. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Funct_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 J. Funct. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=281560"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 258 (2010), no. 11,}} 3758\'963774. (Reviewer: Po-Lam Yung), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35H20,%2835R01,35R03,47D03,53C44,60J60%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 35H20 (35R01 35R03 47D03 53C44 60J60)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=15&mx-pid=2593592"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2593592
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2010k:60106)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=895773"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Wang, Ran}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=895771"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Wang, Xinyi}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=252434"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Wu, Liming}} Sanov's theorem in the Wasserstein distance: a necessary and sufficient condition. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Statist_Probab_Lett"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 Statist. Probab. Lett.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=280419"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 80 (2010), no. 5-6,}} 505\'96512, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60F10"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 60F10}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=17&mx-pid=2580956"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2580956
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2011a:35237)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=805191"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Cavalli, Fausto}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=129265"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Naldi, Giovanni}} A Wasserstein approach to the numerical solution of the one-dimensional Cahn-Hilliard equation. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Kinet_Relat_Models"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 Kinet. Relat. Models}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=279707"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 3 (2010), no. 1,}} 123\'96142, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K55,%2835B25,65M06%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 35K55 (35B25 65M06)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2010&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=ALLF&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=18&mx-pid=2574738"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf5 MR2574738}} 
\fs20 Andres{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=258099"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf5 \ul , Shizan}}
\fs24 ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=750037"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Shao, Jinghai}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=241875"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul Sturm, Karl-Theodor}} Wasserstein space over the Wiener space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Probab_Theory_Related_Fields"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf5 Probab. Theory Related Fields}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=279009"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 146 (2010), no. 3-4,}} 535\'96565. (Reviewer: H\'e9l\'e8ne Airault), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J45,%2858B20,60H07%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul 60J45 (58B20 60H07)}}\cf5 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=Wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2752678"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2752678}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=790026"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Granieri, Luca}} Metric currents and geometry of Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Rend_Semin_Mat_Univ_Padova"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Rend. Semin. Mat. Univ. Padova}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=289975"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 124 (2010), }}91\'96125. ISBN: 978-88-7784-325-8, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=37J50,%2849Q20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37J50 (49Q20)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=Wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=2730652"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2730652}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=117850"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Madras, Neal}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=912515"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sezer, Deniz}} Quantitative bounds for Markov chain convergence: Wasserstein and total variation distances. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Bernoulli"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Bernoulli}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=286311"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 16 (2010), no. 3,}} 882\'96908, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60J22}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=Wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2731158"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2731158
\b0 \ul  
\b \ulnone (2011h:53045)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=786739"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kloeckner, Beno\'eet}} A geometric study of Wasserstein spaces: Euclidean spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Sc_Norm_Super_Pisa_Cl_Sci_5"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Ann. Sc. Norm. Super. Pisa Cl. Sci. (5)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=286192"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 9 (2010), no. 2,}} 297\'96323. (Reviewer: Nicolas Juillet), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=53C23,%2828A33,49Q05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53C23 (28A33 49Q05)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 Vaserstein in title MR 2010\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 MR2749274
\b0  
\b (2012a:20082)
\b0    {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=189570"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Vavilov, N. A.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet//search/institution.html?code=RS_STPT"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 (RS-STPT)}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=921005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Sinchuk, S. S.}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet//search/institution.html?code=RS_STPT"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 (RS-STPT)}}\
Decompositions of Dennis-Vaserstein type. (Russian. English, Russian summary) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Zap_Nauchn_Sem_SPeterburg_Otdel_Mat_Inst_Steklov_POMI"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Zap. Nauchn. Sem. S.-Peterburg. Otdel. Mat. Inst. Steklov. (POMI) }}
\b 375 
\b0 (2010), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=288599"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Voprosy Teorii Predstavlenii Algebr i Grupp. 19,}} 48--60, 210; 
\i translation in 
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Math_Sci_N_Y"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 J. Math. Sci. (N. Y.)}} 
\b 171 
\b0 (2010), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=295749"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 no. 3,}} 331\'96337 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2011, 17  items (see VinTitle2 for other 29 items)\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2011&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2801182"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \cf2 MR2801182}}
\f1  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=720598"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Agueh, Martial}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=661900"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Carlier, Guillaume}} Barycenters in the Wasserstein space. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=SIAM_J_Math_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 SIAM J. Math. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=291259"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 43 (2011), no. 2,}} 904\'96924, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2828A33,49K10,60D99%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 49Q20 (28A33 49K10 60D99)}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1223.49045&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 1223.49045}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2011&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2799600"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2799600}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=885123"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lipman, Y.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=54800"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Daubechies, I.}} Conformal Wasserstein distances: comparing surfaces in polynomial time. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Adv_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Adv. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=292753"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 227 (2011), no. 3,}} 1047\'961077, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=53C23"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53C23}}\cf2 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1217.53026&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 1217.53026}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2011&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=2799815"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2799815}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=750037"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Shao, Jinghai}} Transportation cost inequalities for Wasserstein diffusions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Bull_Sci_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Bull. Sci. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=292752"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 135 (2011), no. 4,}} 383\'96394, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J68,%2828A33,47D07,58Jxx,60J35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60J68 (28A33 47D07 58Jxx 60J35)}}\cf2 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1221.60118&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 1221.60118}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2011&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2808856"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2808856}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=290264"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gangbo, Wilfrid}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=934766"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kim, Hwa Kil}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=656007"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Pacini, Tommaso}} Differential forms on Wasserstein space and infinite-dimensional Hamiltonian systems. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Mem_Amer_Math_Soc"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Mem. Amer. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=291915"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 211 (2011), no. 993,}} vi+77 pp. ISBN: 978-0-8218-4939-2, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=37Kxx,%2853Dxx,58Axx%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37Kxx (53Dxx 58Axx)}}\cf2 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1221.53001&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 1221.53001}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2011&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=5&mx-pid=2784570"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2784570}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=686683"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'e9moli, Facundo}} A spectral notion of Gromov-Wasserstein distance and related methods. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Appl_Comput_Harmon_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Appl. Comput. Harmon. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=291596"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 30 (2011), no. 3,}} 363\'96401, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=53Cxx,%2849Q20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 53Cxx (49Q20)}}\cf2 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1219.53046&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 1219.53046}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=Gromov%E2%80%93Wasserstein%20Distances%20&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2811584"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2811584
\b0 \ul  }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Reviewed}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=686683"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 M\'e9moli, Facundo}} Gromov-Wasserstein distances and the metric approach to object matching. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Found_Comput_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Found. Comput. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=294044"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 11 (2011), no. 4,}} 417\'96487. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=68T10,%2849Q15,54E35,60B05,60B10,68U10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 68T10 (49Q15 54E35 60B05 60B10 68U10)}}
\b \cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=Wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2740101"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 MR2740101}}
\b0 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=778255"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Muskulus, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=206953"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Verduyn-Lunel, Sjoerd}} Wasserstein distances in the analysis of time series and dynamical systems. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Phys_D"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Phys. D}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=287816"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 240 (2011), no. 1,}} 45\'9658, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=37M10,%2860G35,62M10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 37M10 (60G35 62M10)}}\cf2 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1214.37054&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 1214.37054}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2011&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2815689"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2815689}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=933936"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Herrmann, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=359693"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Niethammer, Barbara}} Kramers' formula for chemical reactions in the context of Wasserstein gradient flows. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Commun_Math_Sci"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Commun. Math. Sci.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=293196"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 9 (2011), no. 2,}} 623\'96635, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35Q84,%2835B25,49S05,80Axx%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 35Q84 (35B25 49S05 80Axx)}}\cf2 \ul . {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:1219.35315&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ulc2 Zbl 1219.35315}}\cf0 \ulnone \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2011&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2811584"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 MR2811584}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=686683"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M\'e9moli, Facundo}} Gromov-Wasserstein distances and the metric approach to object matching. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Found_Comput_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf2 Found. Comput. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=294044"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 11 (2011), no. 4,}} 417\'96487, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=68T10,%2849Q15,54E35,60B05,60B10,68U10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 68T10 (49Q15 54E35 60B05 60B10 68U10)}}\cf2 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:pre05977706&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl pre05977706}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=6&mx-pid=2861675"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2861675}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=964434"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Boissard, Emmanuel}} Simple bounds for convergence of empirical and occupation measures in 1-Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Electron_J_Probab"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Electron. J. Probab.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=288877"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 16 (2011), }}no. 83, 2296\'962333. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B10,%2839B72%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 60B10 (39B72)}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:pre06049139&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl pre06049139}}\cf4 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone Published: NOV 15 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=7&mx-pid=2871291"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2871291}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=899165"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Takatsu, Asuka}} Wasserstein geometry of Gaussian measures. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Osaka_J_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Osaka J. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=298899"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 48 (2011), no. 4,}} 1005\'961026. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=53Cxx,%2860D05,60G15%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 53Cxx (60D05 60G15)}}\cf4 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:pre06006848&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl pre06006848}}\cf4 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone Published: DEC 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=8&mx-pid=2857030"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2857030}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Reviewed}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=357144"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Stannat, Wilhelm}} Functional inequalities for the Wasserstein Dirichlet form. 
\i Seminar on Stochastic Analysis, Random Fields and Applications VI, 
\i0 245\'96260, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/series.html?cn=Progr_Probab"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Progr. Probab., 63,}} 
\i Birkh\'e4user/Springer Basel AG, Basel,
\i0  2011. (Reviewer: Ren Ming Song) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J60,%2828A33,35A23,35P15,47D07,58J65,60J35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 60J60 (28A33 35A23 35P15 47D07 58J65 60J35)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=9&mx-pid=2851684"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2851684}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Reviewed}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=957393"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Caillerie, Claire}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=365926"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Chazal, Fr\'e9d\'e9ric}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=632716"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Dedecker, J\'e9r\'f4me}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=954816"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Michel, Bertrand}} Deconvolution for the Wasserstein metric and geometric inference. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Electron_J_Stat"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Electron. J. Stat.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=289437"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 5 (2011), }}1394\'961423. (Reviewer: Vera Pawlowsky-Glahn) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=62H12,%2828A33,60B10,60D99,62G07,62G99%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 62H12 (28A33 60B10 60D99 62G07 62G99)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=10&mx-pid=2843007"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2843007
\b0 \ul  }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Reviewed}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=363836"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Eberle, Andreas}} Reflection coupling and Wasserstein contractivity without convexity. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=C_R_Math_Acad_Sci_Paris"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 C. R. Math. Acad. Sci. Paris}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=296725"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 349 (2011), no. 19-20,}} 1101\'961104. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J60"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 60J60}}\cf4 \ul . 
\fs20 \cf0 \ulnone  
\fs22  Zbl 05966335 . 
\fs24 Published: OCT 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=11&mx-pid=2842966"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2842966
\b0 \ul  }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Reviewed}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=687047"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Adams, Stefan}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=684057"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Dirr, Nicolas}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=366475"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Peletier, Mark A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=708969"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zimmer, Johannes}} From a large-deviations principle to the Wasserstein gradient flow: a new micro-macro passage. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Comm_Math_Phys"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Comm. Math. Phys.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=296773"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 307 (2011), no. 3,}} 791\'96815. (Reviewer: Boualem Djehiche) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60K35,%2860F10%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 60K35 (60F10)}}\cf4 \ul . 
\fs26 \cf0 \ulnone Zbl 05977587 . 
\fs24 \'a0\'a0Published: NOV 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=12&mx-pid=2838101"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2838101
\b0 \ul  }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Reviewed}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=241875"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Sturm, Karl-Theodor}} Generalized Orlicz spaces and Wasserstein distances for convex-concave scale functions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Bull_Sci_Math"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Bull. Sci. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=296520"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 135 (2011), no. 6-7,}} 795\'96802. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60B05,%2846E30%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 60B05 (46E30)}}\cf4 \ul . 
\fs20 \cf0 \ulnone  
\fs22 Zbl 05970569  
\fs20  . 
\fs24 Published: SEP-NOV 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=MR&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=13&mx-pid=2812740"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2812740}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=847865"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Kreitmeier, Wolfgang}} Optimal vector quantization in terms of Wasserstein distance. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Multivariate_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 J. Multivariate Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=293701"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 102 (2011), no. 8,}} 1225\'961239. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60E05,%2860B05,62E17,68P30,94A17,94A29%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 60E05 (60B05 62E17 68P30 94A17 94A29)}}\cf4 \ul . \cf2 \ulnone Zbl 05918992. 
\fs20 \cf0  
\fs22 Zbl 05918992   . 
\fs24 \'a0Published: SEP 2011
\fs26 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc
\cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2012, 11items (see VinTitle2 for other 40 items)\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf4 M{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2949241"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 R2949241}}
\b0 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=899165"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Takatsu, Asuka}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=835734"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Yokota, Takumi}} Cone structure of
\fs26 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i \cf0 L
\i0\fs18 2
\fs24 -Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Topol_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 J. Topol. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=304717"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 4 (2012), no. 2,}} 237\'96253. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=58Bxx,%2828A33,53Cxx%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 58Bxx (28A33 53Cxx)}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2983027"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2983027}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pre"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Prelim}} Lipman, Y.; Puente, J.; Daubechies, I.; Conformal Wasserstein distance: II. computational aspects and extensions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Math_Comp"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Math. Comp.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=307004"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 82 (2013), no. 281,}} 331\'96381.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=2&mx-pid=2994677"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2994677}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pre"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Prelim}} Gigli, Nicola; Ohta, Shin-Ichi; First Variation Formula in Wasserstein Spaces over Compact Alexandrov Spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Canad_Math_Bull"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Canad. Math. Bull.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=307748"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 55 (2012), no. 4,}} 723\'96735.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=3&mx-pid=2964689"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2964689}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pre"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Prelim}} Bolley, Fran\'e7ois; Gentil, Ivan; Guillin, Arnaud; Convergence to equilibrium in Wasserstein distance for Fokker\'96Planck equations. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Funct_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 J. Funct. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=305737"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 263 (2012), no. 8,}} 2430\'962457.  
\fs20 Arxiv preprint arXiv:1110.3606, 2011 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org"}}{\fldrslt arxiv.org}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2921976"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2921976}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=307391"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Komorowski, Tomasz}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=865487"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Walczuk, Anna}} Central limit theorem for Markov processes with spectral gap in the Wasserstein metric. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Stochastic_Process_Appl"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Stochastic Process. Appl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=302765"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 122 (2012), no. 5,}} 2155\'962184. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=60J25,%2860B12,60F05,60J35%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 60J25 (60B12 60F05 60J35)}}\cf4 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone Published: MAY 2012\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=5&mx-pid=2921215"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2921215}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=795338"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Lisini, Stefano}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=722279"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Matthes, Daniel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=336952"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}} Cahn-Hilliard and thin film equations with nonlinear mobility as gradient flows in weighted-Wasserstein metrics. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Differential_Equations"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 J. Differential Equations}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=302554"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 253 (2012), no. 2,}} 814\'96850. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K35,%2835A15%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 35K35 (35A15)}}\cf4 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone Published: JUL 15 2012\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=6&mx-pid=2915328"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2915328}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=804454"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Arnrich, Steffen}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=124395"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Mielke, Alexander}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=366475"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Peletier, Mark A.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=336952"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Savar\'e9, Giuseppe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=793515"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Veneroni, Marco}} Passing to the limit in a Wasserstein gradient flow: from diffusion to reaction. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Calc_Var_Partial_Differential_Equations"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Calc. Var. Partial Differential Equations}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=302376"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 44 (2012), no. 3-4,}} 419\'96454. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35Q84,%2835B25,49S05,70F40,70G75%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 35Q84 (35B25 49S05 70F40 70G75)}}\cf4 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone Published: JUL 2012\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=7&mx-pid=2901195"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2901195}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=899165"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Takatsu, Asuka}} Wasserstein geometry of porous medium equation. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Ann_Inst_H_Poincare_Anal_Non_Lineaire"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Ann. Inst. H. Poincar\'e9 Anal. Non Lin\'e9aire}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=301131"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 29 (2012), no. 2,}} 217\'96232. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=35K57,%2828A75,35C06,46E27,60D05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 35K57 (28A75 35C06 46E27 60D05)}}\cf4 \ul . \cf0 \ulnone Published: MAR-APR 2012\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=8&mx-pid=2900478"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2900478}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=973224"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Chodosh, Otis}} A lack of Ricci bounds for the entropic measure on Wasserstein space over the interval. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Funct_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 J. Funct. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=301102"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 262 (2012), no. 10,}} 4570\'964581. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=53Cxx,%2858Dxx,60B05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 53Cxx (58Dxx 60B05)}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=AUCN&pg5=TI&pg6=PC&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=9&mx-pid=2887832"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2887832}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#review"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Reviewed}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=720598"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Agueh, Martial}} Finsler structure in the
\fs26  
\i p
\i0\fs24 -Wasserstein space and gradient flows. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=C_R_Math_Acad_Sci_Paris"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 C. R. Math. Acad. Sci. Paris}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=299670"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 350 (2012), no. 1-2,}} 35\'9640. (Reviewer: Beno\'eet Kloeckner) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=49Q20,%2853C60,58B20%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 49Q20 (53C60 58B20)}}\cf4 \ul / \cf0 \ulnone \'a0Published: JAN 2012\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=2012&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=pubyear&pg4=TI&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=wasserstein%2A&s5=&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=4&mx-pid=2949240"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2949240}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pending"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Pending}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=IID&s1=786739"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Kloeckner, Beno\'eet}} A generalization of Hausdorff dimension applied to Hilbert cubes and Wasserstein spaces. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=J_Topol_Anal"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 J. Topol. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=304717"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 4 (2012), no. 2,}} 203\'96235. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/mscdoc.html?code=58Dxx,%2828A78,60B05%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 58Dxx (28A78 60B05)}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 Wasserstein in title from Math. Reviews 2013\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publdoc.html?arg3=&co4=AND&co5=AND&co6=AND&co7=AND&dr=all&pg4=ICN&pg5=TI&pg6=JOUR&pg7=ALLF&pg8=ET&review_format=html&s4=&s5=wasserstein&s6=&s7=&s8=All&vfpref=html&yearRangeFirst=&yearRangeSecond=&yrop=eq&r=1&mx-pid=2983027"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 MR2983027}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/help/fullitem_help_full.html#pre"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 Prelim}} Lipman, Y.; Puente, J.; Daubechies, I.; Conformal Wasserstein distance: II. computational aspects and extensions. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/journaldoc.html?cn=Math_Comp"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 Math. Comp.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ams.org.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/mathscinet/search/publications.html?pg1=ISSI&s1=307004"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 82 (2013), no. 281,}} 331\'96381.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0 \cf0 \
\
 
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 -----\
128 items total \
--\
117 Wasserstein \
8 Vaserstein\
1 Vasershtein\
2 Vasserstein\
\
\
\
}