{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf840
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral-Regular;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind1
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 84 reviews by Vaserstein in Zentralblat Mat\
for articles and books published since 2015
\fs24 \

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Asecherre.vincent"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 S\'e9cherre, Vincent}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.22026"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \uc0\u8467 
\f1\i0\fs24 -modular representations of}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.22026"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \uc0\u961 
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic groups}}  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.22026"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 (
\i \uc0\u8467 
\i0 \uc0\u8800 
\i p
\i0 )
\f1 \ulnone \

\fs24 \ul . }}
\i \cf2 \ulnone (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.22026"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01348.22026}} \
Gan, Wee Teck (ed.) et al., Modular representation theory of finite and\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf2 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic groups. Hackensack, NJ: World Scientific (ISBN 978-981-4651-80-6/hbk; 978-981-4651-82-0/ebook). Lecture Notes Series. Institute for Mathematical Sciences. National University of Singapore 30, 47-71 (2015). \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ashelstad.diana"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Shelstad, Diana}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1346.22006"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On elliptic factors in real endoscopic transfer. I. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1346.22006"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01346.22006}} \
Nevins, Monica (ed.) et al., Representations of reductive groups. In honor of the 60th birthday of David A. Vogan, Jr. Proceedings of the conference, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA, May 19\'9623, 2014. Cham: Birkh\'e4user/Springer (ISBN 978-3-319-23442-7/hbk; 978-3-319-23443-4/ebook). Progress in Mathematics 312, 455-504 (2015). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E45}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11F70}} \
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aklimenko.elena"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Klimenko, Elena}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akunyavskii.boris-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Kunyavski\uc0\u301 , Boris}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amorita.jun"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Morita, Jun}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aplotkin.eugene%7Cplotkin.eugene-b"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Plotkin, Eugene}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1391.20027"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Word maps in Kac-Moody setting. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1391.20027"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01391.20027}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00003668"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Toyama Math. J.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00354187"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 37, 25-54 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B67"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B67}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G44"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G44}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Afrechette.sharon-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Frechette, Sharon M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Agordon.julia"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Gordon, Julia}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Arobson.lance"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Robson, Lance}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Shalika germs for  
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 \uc0\u55349 \u56624 \u55349 \u56617 
\i\fs20\fsmilli10350 n
\f1\i0\fs29\fsmilli14640 \ulnone  
\fs24 \ul and  
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 \uc0\u55349 \u56624 \u55349 \u56621 
\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\i n
\f1\i0\fs29\fsmilli14640 \ulnone \

\fs24 \ul are motivic. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01341.22013}} \
Bertin, Marie Jos\'e9 (ed.) et al., Women in numbers Europe. Research directions in number theory. Based on the presentations at the WINE workshop, Luminy, France, October 13\'9618, 2013. Cham: Springer (ISBN 978-3-319-17986-5/hbk; 978-3-319-17987-2/ebook). Association for Women in Mathematics Series 2, 51-85 (2015). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Alei.qiang"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lei, Qiang}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ayu.haijiang"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Yu, Haijiang}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Awu.junde"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Wu, Junde}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1334.81050"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul A new generalized Schur-Weyl duality. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1334.81050"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01334.81050}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000111"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Int. J. Theor. Phys.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00349879"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 54, No. 11, 4034-4040 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A81R05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 81R05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20C35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20C35}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Apopov.vladimir-leonidovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Popov, V. L.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1333.14042"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Number of components of the nullcone. }}
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1333.14042"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01333.14042}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00004210"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Proc. Steklov Inst. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00350605"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 290, 84-90 (2015)}}; translation from Tr. Mat. Inst. Steklova 290, 95-101 (2015). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A14L24"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14L24}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A14L30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14L30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G05}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aganapathy.radhika"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Ganapathy, Radhika}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The local Langlands correspondence for\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 GSp
\f1 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf3 \ul over local function fields. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01332.22018}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000300"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Am. J. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00350517"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 137, No. 6, 1441-1534 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Acrisp.tyrone"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Crisp, Tyrone}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1327.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Parahoric induction and chamber homology for\

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 SL
\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\f1\fs24 . }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1327.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01327.22018}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002074"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Lie Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00349650"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 25, No. 3, 657-676 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aminguez.alberto"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul M\'ednguez, Alberto}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Asecherre.vincent"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul S\'e9cherre, Vincent}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1326.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The involution modulo Zelevinsky\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 \uc0\u8467 
\f1\i0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf3 \ul . (L\'92involution de Zelevinski modulo\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 \uc0\u8467 
\f1\i0\fs24 .) }}
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1326.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01326.22017}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002282"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Represent. Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00343469"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19, 236-262 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ale-boudec.adrien"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Le Boudec, Adrien}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The divergence of the special linear group over a function ring. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.20045"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01332.20045}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Commun. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00348678"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 43, No. 9, 3636-3654 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F65"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F65}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F69"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F69}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G30}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Alehrer.gustav-isaac"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lehrer, G. I.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Azhang.ruibin"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zhang, R. B.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1328.14079"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The Brauer category and invariant theory. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1328.14079"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01328.14079}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002579"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Eur. Math. Soc. (JEMS)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00348752"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17, No. 9, 2311-2351 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A14L35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14L35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A15A72"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 15A72}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abier.agnieszka"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bier, Agnieszka}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1336.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On lattices of closed subgroups in the group of infinite triangular matrices over a field. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1336.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01336.20049}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Linear Algebra Appl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00348760"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 485, 132-152 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E15}} : \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abecher.karim-johannes"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Becher, Karim Johannes}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Adolphin.andrew"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Dolphin, Andrew}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1326.11013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Non-hyperbolic splitting of quadratic pairs. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1326.11013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01326.11013}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00003089"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra Appl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00348274"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14, No. 10, Article ID 1550138, 22 p. (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11E81"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11E81}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Astepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Stepanov, A. V.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20059"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Non-abelian 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 K
\f1\i0\fs24 -theory for Chevalley groups over rings. }}
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20059"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01331.20059}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Math. Sci., New York}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00348089"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 209, No. 4, 645-656 (2015)}}; translation from Zap. Nauchn. Semin. POMI 423, 244-263 (2014). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18F25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18F25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19B99"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19B99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F12}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Apevzner.igor-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Pevzner, I. M.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The width of the group 
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 GL(6,
\i K
\i0 )
\f1 \ulnone \

\fs24 \ul with respect to a set of quasiroot elements. }}
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01331.20058}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Math. Sci., New York}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00348089"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 209, No. 4, 600-613 (2015)}}; translation from Zap. Nauchn. Semin. POMI 423, 183-204 (2014). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F05}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Alusztig.george"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lusztig, G.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1323.22007"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Unipotent almost characters of simple\

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic groups. }}
\i (English. French summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1323.22007"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01323.22007}} \
Bost, Jean-Beno\'eet (ed.) et al., De la g\'e9om\'e9trie alg\'e9brique aux formes automorphes (II). Une collection d\'92articles en l\'92honneur du soixanti\'e8me anniversaire de G\'e9rard Laumon. Paris: Soci\'e9t\'e9 Math\'e9matique de France (SMF) (ISBN 978-2-85629-806-0/pbk). Ast\'e9risque 370, 243-267 (2015). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aellers.erich-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Ellers, Erich W.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avilla.oliver"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Villa, Oliver}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20067"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Half turns in characteristic 2. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20067"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01331.20067}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001605"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Linear Algebra Appl.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00347292"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 483, 221-226 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A15A23"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 15A23}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A51F25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 51F25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A51N30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 51N30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F05}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Acai.li"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Cai, Li}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Axu.bin.8"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Xu, Bin}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1321.22020"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Residues of intertwining operators for\

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 U
\i0 (3,3)
\f1 \ulnone   
\fs24 \ul and base change. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1321.22020"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01321.22020}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001388"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Int. Math. Res. Not.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00346121"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 2015, No. 12, 4064-4096 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aatkarskaya.a-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Atkarskaya, A. S.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1328.20068"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Stable groups over associative rings with 1/2. Description of isomorphisms of the stable unitary groups. }}
\i (English. Russian original)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1328.20068"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01328.20068}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Math. Sci., New York}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00344798"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 206, No. 6, 609-622 (2015)}}; translation from Fundam. Prikl. Mat. 18, No. 4, 3-21 (2013). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E36}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ade-paris.alessandro"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul De Paris, Alessandro}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1322.11105"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Every ternary quintic is a sum of ten fifth powers. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1322.11105"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01322.11105}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001379"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Int. J. Algebra Comput.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00345358"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 25, No. 4, 607-631 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11P05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11E20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11E20}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Achirvasitu.alexandru"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Chirvasitu, Alexandru}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1317.18007"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Categorical aspects of compact quantum groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1317.18007"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01317.18007}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001875"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Appl. Categ. Struct.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00345112"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 23, No. 3, 381-413 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18A40"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18A40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B37"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B37}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A58B32"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 58B32}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18A25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18A25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18A30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18A30}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abackhausz.tibor"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Backhausz, Tibor}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Azabradi.gergely"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Z\'e1br\'e1di, Gergely}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1325.11113"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Algebraic functional equations and completely faithful Selmer groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1325.11113"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01325.11113}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00003335"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Int. J. Number Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00344753"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11, No. 4, 1233-1257 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11R23"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11R23}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11G05}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avan-der-kallen.wilberd"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul van der Kallen, Wilberd}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.13009"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Extrapolating an Euler class. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.13009"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01332.13009}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00343828"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 434, 65-71 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A13C10"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 13C10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19A15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19A15}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amok.chung-pang"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Mok, Chung Pang}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1316.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Endoscopic classification of representations of quasi-split unitary groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1316.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01316.22018}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000584"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Mem. Am. Math. Soc.}} 1108, v, 248 p. (2015). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E55"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E55}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Anevins.monica"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Nevins, Monica}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1316.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Restricting toral supercuspidal representations to the derived group, and applications. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1316.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01316.22014}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Pure Appl. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00343446"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 219, No. 8, 3337-3354 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aciubotaru.dan"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Ciubotaru, Dan}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aopdam.eric-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Opdam, Eric}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1311.22022"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Formal degrees of unipotent discrete series representations and the exotic Fourier transform. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1311.22022"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01311.22022}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000628"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Proc. Lond. Math. Soc. (3)}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00342882"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 110, No. 3, 615-646 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aadrian.moshe"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Adrian, Moshe}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Alansky.joshua-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lansky, Joshua}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1311.22027"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul An interpretation of the tame local Langlands correspondence for\

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic}}\cf3 \ul   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1311.22027"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 PGSp(4)
\f1 \ulnone   
\fs24 \ul from the perspective of real groups. }}
\i \cf2 \ulnone (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1311.22027"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01311.22027}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000115"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Isr. J. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00342446"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 206, 353-393 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E57"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E57}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11S37"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11S37}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Agoodwin.simon-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Goodwin, Simon M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Arohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1315.17016"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On commuting varieties of nilradicals of Borel subalgebras of reductive Lie algebras. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1315.17016"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01315.17016}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000624"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Proc. Edinb. Math. Soc., II. Ser.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00340687"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 58, No. 1, 169-181 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B45"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B45}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abashkirov.evgenii-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bashkirov, Evgenii L.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1314.20035"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On subgroups of the group\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 GL
\i0\fs20\fsmilli10350 7
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14640 \ulnone   
\fs24 \ul over a field that contain a Chevalley group of type\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 G
\i0\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14640 \ulnone   
\fs24 \ul over a subfield. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1314.20035"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01314.20035}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Pure Appl. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00341128"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 219, No. 6, 1992-2014 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E15}} \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Achen.xiaoyu"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Chen, Xiaoyu}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Awang.jianpan"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Wang, Jianpan}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1314.20034"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Krull-Schmidt decomposition of some tensor products of costandard modules for\

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 SL
\fs20\fsmilli10350 3
\fs29\fsmilli14640 (
\i k
\i0 )
\f1 \ulnone   
\fs24 \ul . }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1314.20034"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01314.20034}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Pure Appl. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00341092"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 219, No. 5, 1850-1867 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B10"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B37"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B37}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ahutchinson.kevin"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Hutchinson, Kevin}}. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1310.19004"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On the low-dimensional homology of 
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 SL
\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\fs29\fsmilli14640 (
\i k
\i0 [
\i t
\i0 ,
\i t
\i0\fs20\fsmilli10350 \uc0\u8722 1
\fs29\fsmilli14640 ])
\f1\fs24 . }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1310.19004"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01310.19004}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00341067"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 425, 324-366 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19G99"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19G99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G10"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G10}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aorlik.sascha"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Orlik, Sascha}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Astrauch.matthias"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Strauch, Matthias}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1307.22009"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On Jordan-H\'f6lder series of some locally analytic representations. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1307.22009"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01307.22009}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001206"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Am. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00340883"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 28, No. 1, 99-157 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} : \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abate.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bate, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aherpel.sebastian"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Herpel, Sebastian}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amartin.benjamin-m-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Martin, Benjamin}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Arohrle.gerhard-e"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul R\'f6hrle, Gerhard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1314.20036"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 \ul G
\f1\i0\fs24 -complete reducibility in non-connected groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1314.20036"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01314.20036}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000623"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Proc. Am. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00340849"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 143, No. 3, 1085-1100 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}. MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akohl.ralf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul K\'f6hl, Ralf}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amuhlherr.bernhard"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul M\'fchlherr, Bernhard}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Astruyve.koen"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Struyve, Koen}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20035"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Quotients of trees for arithmetic subgroups of\

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 PGL
\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14640 \ulnone   
\fs24 \ul over a rational function field. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1331.20035"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01331.20035}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002415"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Group Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00340218"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18, No. 1, 61-74 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E08"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E08}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11R58"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11R58}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E42"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E42}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A51E24"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 51E24}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Adetinko.alla-s"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Detinko, A. S.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aflannery.dane-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Flannery, D. L.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ade-graaf.willem-adriaan"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul de Graaf, W. A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1309.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Integrality and arithmeticity of solvable linear groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1309.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01309.20044}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001072"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Symb. Comput.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00339157"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 68, Part 1, 138-145 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20H20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20H20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20-04"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20-04}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A68W30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 68W30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E40"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E40}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Auchiyama.tomohiro"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Uchiyama, Tomohiro}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1309.20040"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Separability and complete reducibility of subgroups of the Weyl group of a simple algebraic group of type 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 E
\i0\fs20\fsmilli10350 7
\f1\fs24 . }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1309.20040"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01309.20040}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00338449"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 422, 357-372 (2015)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G41"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G41}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E07}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akumar-upadhyay.sumit"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Upadhyay, Sumit Kumar}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Adatt-kumar.shiv"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Kumar, Shiv Datt}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Asridharan.raja"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Sridharan, Raja}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1373.13017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Connection between commutative algebra and topology. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1373.13017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01373.13017}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000107"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Indian J. Pure Appl. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00364470"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 47, No. 3, 471-489 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A13D15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 13D15}} \
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aaubert.anne-marie"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Aubert, A.-M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akraskiewicz.witold"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Kra\uc0\u347 kiewicz, W.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aprzebinda.tomasz"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Przebinda, T.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1356.22010"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Howe correspondence and Springer correspondence for dual pairs over a finite field. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1356.22010"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01356.22010}} \
Misra, Kailash C. (ed.) et al., Lie algebras, Lie superalgebras, vertex algebras and related topics. 2012\'962014 Southeastern Lie theory workshop series: Categorification of quantum groups and representation theory, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, USA, April 21\'9622, 2012. Lie algebras, vertex algebras, integrable systems and applications, College of Charleston, Charleston, SC, USA, December 16\'9618, 2012. Noncommutative algebraic geometry and representation theory, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, LA, USA, May 10\'9612, 2013. Representation theory of Lie algebras and superalgebras, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA, May 16\'9617, 2014. Proceedings. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-1-4704-1844-1/hbk; 978-1-4704-3013-9/ebook). Proceedings of Symposia in Pure Mathematics 92, 17-44 (2016). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}. MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E45}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Afine.ben"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Fine, Ben}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Agaglione.anthony-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Gaglione, Anthony M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Arosenberger.gerhard"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Rosenberger, Gerhard}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aspellman.dennis"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Spellman, Dennis}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1375.20027"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On CT and CSA groups and related ideas. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1375.20027"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01375.20027}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002415"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Group Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00359098"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19, No. 5, 923-940 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E26"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E26}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E34"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E34}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E28"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E28}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E07}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aadler.jeffrey-d"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Adler, Jeffrey D.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Acassel.michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Cassel, Michael}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Alansky.joshua-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lansky, Joshua M.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amorgan.emma"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Morgan, Emma}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Azhao.yifei"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zhao, Yifei}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1354.20008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lifting representations of finite reductive groups: a character relation. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1354.20008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01354.20008}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00006353"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Involve}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00358552"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 9, No. 5, 805-812 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20C33"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20C33}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G40"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G40}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Asorokin.o-s.1"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Sorokin, O. S.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.19002"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On the weak Grothendieck group of a B\'e9zout ring. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.19002"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01348.19002}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000436"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Glasg. Math. J.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00358373"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 58, No. 3, 617-635 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19A49"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19A49}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A13D15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 13D15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A13F35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 13F35}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ayu.weibo"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Yu, Weibo}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Atang.guoping"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Tang, Guoping}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1345.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Nilpotency of odd unitary 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 K
\i0\fs20\fsmilli10350 1
\f1\fs24 -functor. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1345.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01345.19001}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Commun. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00356925"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 44, No. 8, 3422-3453 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19B14"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19B14}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G35}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amezo.paul"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Mezo, Paul}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1344.22004"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Tempered spectral transfer in the twisted endoscopy of real groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1344.22004"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01344.22004}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00003022"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Inst. Math. Jussieu}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00356793"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 15, No. 3, 569-612 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E45"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E45}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ayu.xiaoxiang"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Yu, Xiaoxiang}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1344.22008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Residues of standard intertwining operators on\

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic classical groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1344.22008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01344.22008}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001254"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Forum Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00356638"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 28, No. 4, 609-648 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Astudenmund.daniel"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Studenmund, Daniel}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1354.20030"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Commensurators of solvable\

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 S
\f1\i0\fs24 -arithmetic groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1354.20030"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01354.20030}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000615"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Pac. J. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00356565"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 283, No. 1, 201-221 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E36"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E36}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F16"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F16}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aallcock.daniel"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Allcock, Daniel}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Presentation of affine Kac-Moody groups over rings. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1348.20058"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01348.20058}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00005004"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Algebra Number Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00356450"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 10, No. 3, 533-556 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G44"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G44}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19C99"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19C99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B22}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aasensouyis.hassan"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Asensouyis, Hassan}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1343.11087"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul A genus formula for the wild \'e9tale kernel. (Formule des genres pour le noyau sauvage \'e9tale.) }}
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1343.11087"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01343.11087}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001985"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Ann. Math. Blaise Pascal}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00356063"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 23, No. 1, 1-20 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11R70"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11R70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11R34"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11R34}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19F27"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19F27}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abashkirov.evgenii-l"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bashkirov, Evgenii L.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1346.20069"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On linear groups of degree 2 over a noncommutative division algebra. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1346.20069"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01346.20069}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000057"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Commun. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00355668"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 44, No. 3, 1033-1054 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20H25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20H25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E07}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Atam.kam-fai"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Tam, Kam-Fai}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22016"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Some endoscopic properties of the essentially tame Jacquet-Langlands correspondence. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22016"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01341.22016}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Doc. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00355730"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 21, 345-389 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abarker.laurence"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Barker, Laurence}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ademirel.merve"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Demirel, Merve}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1373.20008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Simple functors of admissible linear categories. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1373.20008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01373.20008}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002425"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Algebr. Represent. Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00355219"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19, No. 2, 463-472 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20C20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20C20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20J15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20J15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18A22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18A22}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19A22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19A22}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amoy.allen"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Moy, Allen}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amuic.goran"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Mui\uc0\u263 , Goran}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22011"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On the cusp forms of congruence subgroups of an almost simple Lie group. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22011"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01341.22011}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000579"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Math. Z.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00355127"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 283, No. 1-2, 401-417 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E46"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E46}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Agurevich.maksim-isidorovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Gurevich, Maxim}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aoffen.omer"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Offen, Omer}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul A criterion for integrability of matrix coefficients with respect to a symmetric space. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22014"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01341.22014}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000492"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Funct. Anal.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00355017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 270, No. 12, 4478-4512 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amaktouf.khemais"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Maktouf, Khemais}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Atorasso.pierre"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Torasso, Pierre}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22015"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Restriction of the Weil representation to a maximal compact subgroup. (Restriction de la repr\'e9sentation de Weil \'e0 un sous-groupe compact maximal.) }}
\i (French. English summary)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1341.22015"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01341.22015}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000507"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Math. Soc. Japan}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00354177"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 68, No. 1, 245-293 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Achoiy.kwangho"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Choiy, Kwangho}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Agoldberg.david-e%7Cgoldberg.david-h%7Cgoldberg.david-alan"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Goldberg, David}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1335.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Invariance of  
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 R
\f1\i0\fs24 -groups between  
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic inner forms of quasi-split classical groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1335.22018"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01335.22018}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000744"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Trans. Am. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00354109"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 368, No. 2, 1387-1410 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abeuzart-plessis.raphael"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Beuzart-Plessis, Rapha\'ebl}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1334.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul A short proof of the existence of supercuspidal representations for all reductive\

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1334.22017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01334.22017}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000615"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Pac. J. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00353076"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 282, No. 1, 27-34 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Astavrova.anastasia"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Stavrova, Anastasia}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Non-stable 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 K
\i0\fs20\fsmilli10350 1
\f1\fs24 -functors of multiloop groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1332.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01332.19001}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000383"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Can. J. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00352459"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 68, No. 1, 150-178 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19B99"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19B99}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G35}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Astepanov.alexei-vladimirovich"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Stepanov, Alexei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1337.20057"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Structure of Chevalley groups over rings via universal localization. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1337.20057"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01337.20057}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00352206"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 450, 522-548 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F12"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18F25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18F25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19B99"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19B99}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Afernos.talia"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Fern\'f3s, Talia}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Asingla.pooja.1%7Csingla.pooja"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Singla, Pooja}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1337.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On images of real representations of special linear groups over complete discrete valuation rings. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1337.20049"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01337.20049}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000436"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Glasg. Math. J.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00351271"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 58, No. 1, 263-272 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G25}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aallcock.daniel"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Allcock, Daniel}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Acarbone.lisa-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Carbone, Lisa}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1333.20050"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Presentation of hyperbolic Kac-Moody groups over rings. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1333.20050"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01333.20050}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00350052"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 445, 232-243 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}} MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G44"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G44}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F05}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ahurlimann.werner"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul H\'fcrlimann, Werner}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1330.11022"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Cooper and Lam\'92s conjecture for generalized Bell ternary quadratic forms. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1330.11022"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01330.11022}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000512"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Number Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00348019"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 158, 23-32 (2016)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11E25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11E25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11D45"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11D45}} 
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abushnell.colin-j"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bushnell, Colin J.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ahenniart.guy-m"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Henniart, Guy}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1406.22019"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Strong exponent bounds for the local Rankin-Selberg convolution. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1406.22019"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01406.22019}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001005"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bull. Iran. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00426763"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 43, No. 4, 143-167 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11S37"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11S37}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Adat.jean-francois"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Dat, Jean-Fran\'e7ois}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1388.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul A functoriality principle for blocks of\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -adic linear groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1388.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01388.22013}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Brumley, Farrell (ed.) et al., Around Langlands correspondences. International conference, Universit\'e9 Paris Sud, Orsay, France, June 17\'9620, 2015. Proceedings. Providence, RI: American Mathematical Society (AMS) (ISBN 978-1-4704-3573-8/pbk; 978-1-4704-4117-3/ebook). Contemporary Mathematics 691, 103-131 (2017). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}} MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abergeron.nicolas"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bergeron, Nicolas}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aclozel.laurent"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Clozel, Laurent}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1381.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On the cohomology of trialitary hyperbolic varieties of dimension 7. (Sur la cohomologie des vari\'e9t\'e9s hyperboliques de dimension 7 trialitaires.) }}
\i (French)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1381.22013"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01381.22013}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000115"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Isr. J. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00372467"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 222, No. 1, 333-400 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aoguz.can-ozan"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul O\uc0\u287 uz, Can Ozan}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Areeks.michael%7Creeks.michael-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Reeks, Michael}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1388.18009"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Trace of the twisted Heisenberg category. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1388.18009"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01388.18009}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000063"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Commun. Math. Phys.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00372234"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 356, No. 3, 1117-1154 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18D20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18D20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B67"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B67}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amenni.matias"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Menni, Matias}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1387.18008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Every rig with a one-variable fixed point presentation is the Burnside rig of a prextensive category. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1387.18008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01387.18008}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001875"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Appl. Categ. Struct.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00368337"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 25, No. 4, 663-707 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18B25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18B25}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Achalupnik.marcin"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Cha\uc0\u322 upnik, Marcin}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1387.18002"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Affine strict polynomial functors and formality. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1387.18002"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01387.18002}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000290"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Adv. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00371081"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 320, 652-673 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18A25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18A25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18A40"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18A40}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A18G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 18G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} \
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akutzschebauch.frank"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Kutzschebauch, Frank}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Alarusson.finnur"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L\'e1russon, Finnur}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aschwarz.gerald-w"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Schwarz, Gerald W.}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1379.32019"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Sufficient conditions for holomorphic linearisation. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1379.32019"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01379.32019}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002251"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Transform. Groups}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00367046"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22, No. 2, 475-485 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A32M05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 32M05}} \
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ahong.jiuzu"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Hong, Jiuzu}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ayacobi.oded"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Yacobi, Oded}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1390.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Quantum polynomial functors. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1390.20047"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01390.20047}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00369271"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 479, 326-367 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G42"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G42}} 18D10 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A17B37"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 17B37}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G43"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G43}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20C08"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20C08}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akong.yafang"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Kong, Yafang}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aliu.zhixin"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Liu, Zhixin}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1381.11098"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On pairs of Goldbach-Linnik equations. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1381.11098"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01381.11098}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000051"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bull. Aust. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00365486"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 95, No. 2, 199-208 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11P32"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11P32}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11P05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11P05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11P55"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11P55}} \
\
\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Acavallin.mikael"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Cavallin, Mika\'ebl}}\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1390.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Restriction of irreducible modules for\

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 Spin
\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\i n
\i0 +1
\fs29\fsmilli14640 (
\i K
\i0 )
\f1\fs24 to 
\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 Spin
\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\i n
\i0\fs29\fsmilli14640 (
\i K
\i0 )
\f1\fs24 . }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1390.20044"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01390.20044}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00365660"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 482, 159-203 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G05}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20E07"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20E07}} \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akarpenko.nikita-a"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Karpenko, Nikita A.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1362.14006"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Chow groups of some generically twisted flag varieties. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1362.14006"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01362.14006}} \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00008758"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Ann. 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 K
\f1\i0\fs24 -Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00362261"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 2, No. 2, 341-356 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A14C25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14C25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ayu.guoliang"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Yu, Guoliang}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1362.19003"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The Novikov conjecture for algebraic K-theory of the group algebra over the ring of Schatten class operators. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1362.19003"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01362.19003}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000290"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Adv. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00361863"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 307, 727-753 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19D50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19D50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A46L10"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 46L10}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Amalkiewich.cary"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Malkiewich, Cary}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1360.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Coassembly and the\

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 K
\f1\i0\fs24 -theory of finite groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1360.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01360.19001}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000290"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Adv. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00361863"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 307, 100-146 (2017)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19B28"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19B28}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A55P42"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 55P42}} 
\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Adeveci.omur"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Deveci, \'d6m\'fcr}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1424.11055"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The Padovan-circulant sequences and their applications. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1424.11055"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01424.11055}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002930"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Math. Rep., Buchar.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00427730"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20(70), No. 4, 401-416 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11B50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11B50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11C20"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11C20}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20D60"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20D60}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20F05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20F05}} \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Axu.xingzhong"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Xu, Xingzhong}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Azhang.jiping"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zhang, Jiping}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A06921616"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul On Bouc\'92s and Th\'e9venaz\'92s conjectures on\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 B
\f1\i0\fs24 -groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A06921616"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a006921616}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00412533"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 511, 155-163 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19A22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19A22}} \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abasu.rudranil%7Cbasu.rajib%7Cbasu.reshmi%7Cbasu.riddhipratim%7Cbasu.ranojoy%7Cbasu.rahul%7Cbasu.rabeya%7Cbasu.ruma%7Cbasu.rakhee%7Cbasu.raunak%7Cbasu.rabitosh%7Cbasu.rekha"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Basu, R.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1403.19002"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Local-global principle for the general quadratic and general Hermitian groups and the nilpotency of\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 KH
\fs20\fsmilli10350 1
\f1\fs24 . }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1403.19002"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01403.19002}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00001955"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Math. Sci., New York}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00411415"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 232, No. 5, 591-609 (2018)}} and Zap. Nauchn. Semin. POMI 452, 5-31 (2016). \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19B14"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19B14}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G15}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aoda.fumihito"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Oda, Fumihito}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Atakegahara.yugen"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Takegahara, Yugen}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ayoshida.tomoyuki"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Yoshida, Tomoyuki}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1403.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lefschetz invariants and Young characters for representations of the hyperoctahedral groups. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1403.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01403.19001}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00411461"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 512, 1-19 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19A22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19A22}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20B30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20B30}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20B35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20B35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20C15"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20C15}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20C30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20C30}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Arao.dhvanita-r"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Rao, Dhvanita R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akolte.sagar-u"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Kolte, Sagar}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1393.13023"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Odd orthogonal matrices and the non-injectivity of the Vaserstein symbol. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1393.13023"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01393.13023}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000473"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00410689"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 510, 458-468 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A13C10"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 13C10}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Alavrenov.andrei-v"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Lavrenov, Andrei}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1398.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul A local-global principle for symplectic\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf3 K
\fs20\fsmilli10350 2
\f1\fs24 . }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1398.19001"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01398.19001}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002204"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Doc. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00384349"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 23, 653-675 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19C09"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19C09}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aechterhoff.siegfried"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Echterhoff, Siegfried}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Ali.kang"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Li, Kang}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Anest.ryszard"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Nest, Ryszard}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1390.19008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul The orbit method for the Baum-Connes conjecture for algebraic groups over local function fields. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1390.19008"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01390.19008}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00002074"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Lie Theory}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00389161"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 28, No. 2, 323-341 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A19K35"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 19K35}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A20G25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 20G25}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Agordon-sarney.reed-leon"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Gordon-Sarney, R.}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Asuresh.vinod%7Csuresh.v-a%7Csuresh.velamuri%7Csuresh.venapally"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Suresh, V.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1383.14003"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Totaro\'92s question on zero-cycles on torsors. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1383.14003"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01383.14003}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000411"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Duke Math. J.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00374346"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 167, No. 2, 385-395 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A14C25"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14C25}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A14M17"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14M17}} \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Akoziol.karol"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Kozio\uc0\u322 , Karol}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Apeskin.laura"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Peskin, Laura}}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1385.22007"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Irreducible admissible mod-
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 p
\f1\i0\fs24 representations of metaplectic groups.}}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1385.22007"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01385.22007}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000547"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Manuscr. Math.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00374256"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 155, No. 3-4, 539-577 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22E50"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22E50}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A11F70"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 11F70}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A22D30"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 22D30}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Agordon-sarney.reed-leon"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Gordon-Sarney, Reed Leon}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1388.14024"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Totaro\'92s question for tori of low rank. }}
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1388.14024"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01388.14024}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000744"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Trans. Am. Math. Soc.}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00374410"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 370, No. 5, 3245-3264 (2018)}}. \
Reviewer:\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Avaserstein.leonid-n"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul L. N. Vaserstein (University Park)}}\
MSC:\'a0 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/classification/?q=cc%3A14C05"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 14C05}} \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Abouc.serge"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Bouc, Serge}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/authors/?q=ai%3Aromero.nadia"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Romero, Nadia}}\
The Whitehead group of (almost) extra-special\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl460\partightenfactor0

\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 \cf2 p
\f1\i0\fs24 -groups with 
\f2\i\fs29\fsmilli14640 p
\f1\i0\fs24 odd. 
\i (English)
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=an%3A1403.19003"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Zbl\'a01403.19003}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/serials/?q=se%3A00000518"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul J. Pure Appl. Algebra}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://zbmath.org/?q=in%3A00414017"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul 223, No. 1, 86-107 (2019)}}. \
\
}