{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16980\viewh18100\viewkind0
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Midterm 1 October 3, 2012  Math 484.2  25 questions, 3 pts each\

\fs18 1. 2x-3y is\
A) a linear equation for x, y B) an affine function of x,y,z C) a linear form in x\
D) a linear constraint for x,y E) a linear program\
\
2. 2 = 3 is\
A) a linear constraint for x, y B) a linear equation for x in standard form\
C) an affine function of x, y D) an equation which cannot be solved E) nonsense\
\
3. The linear program  2x+3y -> max subject to x,y \uc0\u8805  0, x+y=1\
A) is unbounded B) is infeasible C) has many optimal solutions\
D) has optimal value 3  E) is not linear\
\
\
4. The function  xy  of x,y,z is\
A) not an affine function of x,y,z B) is a linear form in x,y,z\
C) is a linear equation for x D) is not defined for all x,y,z E) is not a function\
\
5. The mathematical program xy ->min subject to |x| \uc0\u8804  1, y \u8805  0 for two unknowns x, y\
A) is a linear program B) is infeasible C) has an optimal solution\
D) is unbounded E) is not a mathematical program\
\
6. The mathematical program  x -> max,  x < 1\
A) is unbounded B) is infeasible C) has an optimal solution\
D) has no optimal solutions E) is not a mathematical program\
\
7.The answer to the mathematical program x+2y -> max, |x| + |y| \uc0\u8804  1 is\
A) x= 2 at x = y = 1. B) x = 0, y = 1. C) max = 1 at x = 1, y = 0\
D) min = -2 at x = 0, y = -1. E) max = 2 at x = 0, y = 1.
\fs28 \

\fs18 \
8. The minimal total cost for the job assignment problem\
1 	2 	3 	4\
3 	3 	2 	2\
4 	5 	3 	6\
3 	0 	0 	1\
is    A) 5. B) 6. C) 7. D) 8. E) 5.5.\
\
9. If x> 1 then x \uc0\u8805  0.   A) True B) False\
\
10. x \uc0\u8805  0 provided that x > 1.   A) True B) False\
\
11.If x > 0 or y > 0 then x + y > 0.   A) True B) False\
\
12. x > 0 only if x > 1   A) True B) False\
\
13. The linear program given by the  standard tableau\
x1 	x2 	x3 	x4 	1 	 \
1 	-2 	0 	3 	0 	=x5\
-4 	0 	2 	0 	1 	=x6\
0 	1 	0 	2 	-3 	-> min\
A) is infeasible. B) is unbounded. C) has an optimal solution\
D) has only 2 linear constraints. E) has only 4 unknowns.\
\
14.  The linear program given by the standard tableau\
x1 	x2 	x3 	x4 	1 	 \
1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	=x5\
-4 	0 	-2 	0 	-1 	=x6\
0 	-1 	0 	2 	-3 	-> min\
A) is infeasible. B) is unbounded. C) has an optimal solution.\
D) requires at least one pivot step to solve by simplex method. E) cannot be solved by simplex method.\
\
15. The linear program given by the standard tableau\
x1 	x2 	x3 	x4 	1 	 \
1 	2 	0 	3 	0 	=x5\
-4 	0 	-2 	0 	1 	=x6\
0 	-1 	0 	2 	-3 	-> min\
A) is infeasible. B) is unbounded. C) has an optimal solution.\
D) has -3 as the optimal value. E) has only one feasible solution.\
\
16. The standard tableau\
x1 	x2 	x3 	 1 	 \
0 	0 	0 	0 	-> min\
A) is optimal. B) has a bad column. C) has a bad row. D) is not standard. E) is too small.\
\
17. The standard tableau\
1 	 \
-1 	= x1\
0 	=x2\
1 	-> min\
A) is optimal. B) has a bad row. C) has a bad column. D) is not standard. E) is too small.\
\
18. Pivoting the tableau\
x 	y 	 \
2* 	3 	= z\
produces the tableau\
A) x 	y 	 \
  1/2 	-3/2 	 = z\
B)  x 	y 	 \
     2 	-3/2 	= z\
C) x 	y 	 \
  1/2 	3 	= z\
D) z 	y 	 \
 1/2 	3/2 	=x\
E) z 	y 	 \
 1/2 	-3/2 	= x\
\
19. The linear program x+y -> max, x\uc0\u8804  1, y \u8804  2\
A) is infeasible. B) is unbounded. C) has an optimal solution.\
D) has infinitely many optimal solutions. E) has 3 as the optimal solution.\
\
20.The equation x\super 2\nosupersub  + y\super 2\nosupersub  = 0 for x, y\
A) has no solutions. B) has exactly one solution. C) has infinitely many solutions.\
\
21.The system x+ 2y = 3, 4x +8y = 9 for x,y\
A) has no solutions. B) has exactly one solution. C) has infinitely many solutions.\
\
22. The set of constraints x + y > 2, 2x + 3y > 4 implies that\
A) 4x + 5y > 0  B) x \uc0\u8805  0  C) y \u8805  1  D) x \u8804  0  E) y \u8804  1\
\
23. Unless said otherwise, a number in this course means a real number.  A) True B) False\
\
24. Any linear program given by a standard tableau with a bad column is unbounded.  A) True  B) False\
\
25. A standard tableau cannot have both a bad row and a bad column.   A) True   B)False\
}