{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 ArialUnicodeMS;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f5\fnil\fcharset128 HiraMinProN-W3;
\f6\fnil\fcharset0 AppleSymbols;\f7\fnil\fcharset134 STSong;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green17\blue242;\red0\green0\blue239;\red0\green0\blue239;
\red0\green0\blue240;\red9\green80\blue176;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww22380\viewh24740\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f0\fs28 \cf0 My name in title without Math. Reviews items
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b \cf0 Vaserstein
\b0  
\f1\b\fs28  
\b0\fs24  without Math. Reviews   1 item
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ecommons.library.cornell.edu/handle/1813/15168"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Leonid \ulnone Vaserstein \ul Interview}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 L 
\b Vaserstein
\b0  - 1980 - ecommons.library.cornell.edu\

\b ...
\b0  Please use this identifier to cite or link to this item: http://hdl.handle.net/1813/15168. Title: Leonid\

\b Vaserstein
\b0  Interview. Authors: 
\b Vaserstein
\b0 , Leonid. Issue Date: Aug-1980. URI: http://hdl.handle.\
net/1813/15168. Appears in Collections: 
\b Vaserstein
\b0 , Leonid N. Files in This Item: 
\b ...
\b0  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:DfQksugHl8kJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy+-david&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1980&as_yhi=1984"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cached}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=14526087819109397517&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1980&as_yhi=1984"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 6 versions}}
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.iitp.ru/upload/content/839/Butkovsky%20Veretennikov.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 On asymptotics of 
\i \ulnone Vaserstein's
\i0 \ul  coupling for a Markov chain }}
\f1 \
File Format: PDF/Adobe Acrobat - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:imkdbR5RVFMJ:www.iitp.ru/upload/content/839/Butkovsky%2520Veretennikov.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjzYnawa9-3lqYRAPNoqP87S_gEStLPQVN3Z0bdTabSkQKQOIV7a13wL2yqkjXhMD_r_Z6746CYHOHTFK-90mDD6qt6vawwX-kN6zKDCNSWxidukzE-YBK5qJBHPIEY-TFKzlEF&sig=AHIEtbThVltQgSGJq5fE2m0Rh_aKjZY_pQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Quick View}}\
by OA Butkovsky - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&lr=&cites=8374793201973669031&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=X&ei=wBXiUIK8CuO10QGMyoEY&ved=0CEQQzgIwATgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cited by 2}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&lr=&q=related:pyz_rgs-OXQJ:scholar.google.com/&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=X&ei=wBXiUIK8CuO10QGMyoEY&ved=0CEUQzwIwATgK"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}}\
On asymptotics of Vaserstein's coupling for a. Markov chain. O.A.Butkovsky. 
\f2 \uc0\u8727 
\f1 . & A.Yu.Veretennikov. \'86. Abstract. In this paper rate of convergence to stationary 
\b ...
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 July 25-29 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein  1980-1989 
\b0\fs24  without Math. Reviews   1 item
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://siamdl.aip.org/vsearch/servlet/VerityServlet?KEY=SIAMDL&smode=results&sort=rel&maxdisp=25&threshold=0&pjournals=SIAMDL%2CMMSUBT%2CSJADAY%2CSMJMAP%2CSMJCAT%2CSJCODC%2CSJDMEC%2CSJFMBJ%2CSJISBI%2CSJMAAH%2CSJMAEL%2CSJNAAM%2CSJOPE8%2CSJOCE3%2CSIREAD%2CTPRBAU&possible1=Wasserstein&possible1zone=article&OUTLOG=NO&viewabs=TPRBAU&key=DISPLAY&docID=18&page=0&chapter=0"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \cf2 Addendum: Calculation of the Wasserstein Distance between Probability Distributions on the Line\'a0 }}
\f1\b \cf2 \
S.S. Vallander
\b0 \cf0 \
Theory Probab. Appl. 
\b 26
\b0  435 (1982) \'a0\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=39EjHAAACAAJ&dq=Matthias+Gelbrich++wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=RHTgUJeLI-Lo0gGL_YDoBw&ved=0CDoQ6AEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Lp-
\i \ulnone Wasserstein
\i0 \ul -Metriken [Lp-
\i \ulnone Wasserstein
\i0 \ul -Metriken] und }}
\b\fs28 \uc0\u8234  Approximationen stochastischer Differentialgleichungen\cf3 \ul \ulc3 \uc0\u8236 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Matthias+Gelbrich%22&ei=RHTgUJeLI-Lo0gGL_YDoBw&ved=0CDwQ9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 Matthias Gelbrich}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&sa=G&tbo=d&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Matthias+Gelbrich%22&ei=RHTgUJeLI-Lo0gGL_YDoBw&ved=0CD0Q9AgwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Matthias Gelbrich}} - 1989\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein  1990-1993 
\b0\fs24  without Math. Reviews  5 items\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.mathnet.or.kr/mathnet/kms_content.php?no=289130"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Relations between the iyo processes based on the \ulnone wasserstein \ul function}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 W Choi - 1993 - mathnet.or.kr\
Communications of the Korean Mathematical Society ( Vol.8 NO.4 / 1993 ). Title, Relations\
between the iyo processes based on the 
\b wasserstein
\b0  function(eng). Author, Won Choi. MSC,\
Publication, Page, 793-797 Page. Abstract, Own Status, Keyword, Note, Summary, Attach,
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://opensigle.inist.fr/handle/10068/294976"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Skorhod representation theorem and \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metrics}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 JA Cuesta Albertos - 1991 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://opensigle.inist.fr"}}{\fldrslt opensigle.inist.fr}} 19 pp\

\b ...
\b0  Please use this identifier to cite or link to this item: http://hdl.handle.net/10068/294976. \
Authors: Cuesta Albertos, Juan\
A. Matran Bea, Carlos Cantabria Univ., Santander (Spain). Dept. 
\b ...
\b0  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:UD9Q5gLAUAkJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1990&as_yhi=1993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cached}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=671247463164690256&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1990&as_yhi=1993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 2 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:0718.60057&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zbl 0718.60057}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:gelbrich.matthias"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gelbrich, Matthias}}
\b \
L$\{\}\\sp p$-Wasserstein-Metriken und Approximationen stochastischer Differentialgleichungen. $(L\\sp p$ Wasserstein metrics and approximations of stochastic differential equations).
\b0  (German)\
Berlin: Humboldt-Universit\'e4t Berlin, Mathematisch- Naturwissenschaftliche Fakult\'e4t, Diss. 77 S. (1990). MSC2000: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:*60H10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 *60H10}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=cc:60B10"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 60B10}}, 
\i Reviewer:
\i0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=rv:M.Gelbrich"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 M.Gelbrich}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/tesis?codigo=12324"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Aplicaciones crecientes. Relaciones con las m\'e9tricas \ulnone Wasserstein}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 MA Tuero D\'edaz - 1991 - dialnet.unirioja.es\
Resumen: DEMOSTRACIONES DE LA MEDIBILIDAD Y CONTINUIDAD DE LAS \
APLICACIONES CRECIENTES EN ESPACIOS DE HILBERT, SI PN CONVERGEN \
DEBILMENTE HACIA PY (X, HN (X)) SON EMPAREJAMIENTOS OPTIMOS (EO) ENTRE 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=2898692697920290156&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 1}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:bL2OnKY5OigJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1990&as_yhi=1993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:bL2OnKY5OigJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1990&as_yhi=1993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cached}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=2898692697920290156&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1990&as_yhi=1993"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 2 versions}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://searchworks.stanford.edu/view/591317"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone Duality theorems for Kantorovich-Rubinstein and Wasserstein functionals }}
\b\fs48 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs28 \cf0 S.T. Rachev and R.M. Shortt. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books/about/Duality_Theorems_for_Kantorovich_Rubinst.html?id=KawASgAACAAJ"}}{\fldrslt  google books}}
\fs24 \
Warszawa : Pa\uc0\u324 stwowe Wydawn. Naukowe, 1990. 39 pp 8301099704 9788301099701\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:0716.60005&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Zbl 0716.60005}}  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:rachev.svetlozar-t"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Rachev, S.T.}}
\b ; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=ai:shortt.rae-michael"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Shortt, R.M.}} Duality theorems for Kantorovich-Rubinstein and Wasserstein functionals.
\b0  (English)\
[J] Diss. Math. 299, 35 p. (1990). ISSN 0012-3862\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein  1994-1999 
\b0\fs24  without Math. Reviews   4 items\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [CITATION] Independence of prime factors: total variation and Wasserstein metrics, insertions and deletions, and the Poisson-Dirichlet process\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl168\slmult1

\b0\fs20 \cf0 R Arratia - preprint, 1996\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=8510177149291048152&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Cited by 10}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:2KwjRwc5GnYJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1996&as_yhi=1997"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Related articles}}\cf2 \ul   .  
\fs22 cited in in 
\b\fs30 \cf0 \ulnone Microsurveys in Discrete Probability: Dimacs Workshop, June 2-6, 1997
\fs50  
\b0\fs26 \'a0By D. David J. Aldous, James Propp   and 
\b\fs30 Contemporary Combinatorics
\fs50  
\b0\fs26 \'a0edited by Bela Bollobas
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Series: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springer.com/series/4706"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Bolyai Society Mathematical Studies}}, Vol. 10 2002, II, 300 p.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [CITATION] Independence of small prime factors of a uniformly distributed integer: total variation and Wasserstein metrics\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 R Arratia - 1996 - Manuscrit\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=10507798859466335496&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 2}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:COW-1WMz05EJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1996&as_yhi=1997"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/tesis?codigo=13148"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Aplicaciones de las m\'e9tricas de \ulnone Wasserstein \ul al an\'e1lisis de datos}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 JM Rodr\'edguez Rodr\'edguez - 1997 - dialnet.unirioja.es\
Resumen: SE DAN APLICACIONES DE LAS METRICAS DE 
\b WASSERSTEIN 
\b0 A LA \
ESTADISTICA Y AL ANALISIS DE DATOS, LAS APLICACIONES SE BASAN EN LA \
COMPARACION DE UNA DISTRIBUCION CON UNA FAMILIA DE DISTRIBUCIONES DE 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:rsv-RvtNV88J:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1996&as_yhi=1997"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cached}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=14940496030448143278&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1996&as_yhi=1997"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 2 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.41.8084&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Convergence in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Metric for Markov Chain Monte Carlo Algorithms with Applications in Image Processing}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf2 A
\fs20 \cf0 lison L Gibbs - 1999 - Citeseer\
Abstract This paper gives precise bounds on the convergence time of the Gibbs sampler \
used in the Bayesian restoration of a degraded image. Convergence to stationarity is \
assessed using the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 metric, rather than the usual choice of total variation 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:OgHjvgD_Y9sJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1999&as_yhi=1999"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:OgHjvgD_Y9sJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1999&as_yhi=1999"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=15808759495668203834&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=1999&as_yhi=1999"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 5 versions}}
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein  2000-2003 
\b0\fs24  without Math. Reviews   6 items\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [CITATION] Testing for Weibull scale families as a test case for Wasserstein correlation tests [Discussion of del Barrio, Cuesta-Albertos and Matran]\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 S Csorgo - 2000 - Test\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=6699823773054007760&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 2}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:0PmZcjmO-lwJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2000&as_yhi=2000"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.21.168&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 2/\ulnone Wasserstein \ul Optimal Mapping Between Prescribed Densities Functions}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.21.168&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from psu.edu}}
\b0\fs20 JDBY Brenier - 2000 - Citeseer\
Abstract A time dependent minimization problem for the computation of a \
mixedL2/
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance between two prescribed density functions is introduced (in \
the spirit of 1] for the\\ classical" 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance). The optimum of the cost function 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:Xi3Og-hnSEcJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2000&as_yhi=2000"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:Xi3Og-hnSEcJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2000&as_yhi=2000"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=5136469623357451614&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2000&as_yhi=2000"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 3 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [CITATION] Wasserstein-metric\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0  L. R\'fcschendorf, \'93Wasserstein metric\'94, in Hazewinkel Michiel, 
\i Encyclopaedia of Mathematics
\i0 , Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2001.\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=2996662392658905034&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 10}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:ysc0spFIlikJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2001&as_yhi=2001"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [CITATION] Asymptotics for L 2-functionals of the quantile process with application to tests of fit based on weighted Wasserstein distances\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Eustasio Del Barrio, Evarist Gin\'e9, and Frederic Utzet 
\fs20 \'85 - Preprint, 2002  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://projecteuclid.org/handle/euclid.bj"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Bernoulli}}
\fs24  Volume {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://projecteuclid.org/DPubS?service=UI&version=1.0&verb=Display&handle=euclid.bj/1110228245"}}{\fldrslt 11, Number 1 (2005), 131-189.}}
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [CITATION] Asymptotics for empirical Wasserstein distances\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 E del Barrio
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.unavarra.es/stochastic/abstracts/Barrio.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Asymptotics for \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distances}}
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul  pdf\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 E del Barrio - unavarra.es\
Wp is a metric on the space of probability measures with finite p-th moment that metrices weak \
convergence plus convergence of p-th moments. These metrics have interesting applications \
in Probability and Statistics, remarkably in the problem of testing goodness of fit. Here we 
\b ...
\b0  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein  
\b0\fs24 2004-2005 without Math. Reviews   7  items\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.imati.cnr.it/%7Esavare/conferences/Parigi04.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A fourth-order nonlinear PDE as gradient flow of the Fisher information in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.imati.cnr.it/%7Esavare/conferences/Parigi04.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from cnr.it}}
\b0\fs20 U Gianazza, G Savar\'e9\'85 - Preprint, Universita di Pavia, Italy, 2004 - imati.cnr.it\
Page 1. A fourth-order nonlinear PDE as gradient flow of the Fisher information in 
\b Wasserstein
\b0 \
spaces Giuseppe Savar \'b4e 
\b ...
\b0  Page 2. Plan 1. The fourth order equation and its structure 2. Gradient\
flows and 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance 3. Main results and ideas involved in the proof 
\b ...
\b0  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=3647856690293930864&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 11}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:cHuAKFXKnzIJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:cHuAKFXKnzIJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=3647856690293930864&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 3 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://books.google.com/books?id=rCDK9JA5BAEC&printsec=frontcover&dq=LANGG+Savare+wasserstein&hl=en&sa=X&ei=y4jkUOYWiufRAZOlgLAE&ved=0CDEQ6AEwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Gradient Flows: In Metric Spaces and in the Space of Probability Measures }}
\b\fs28 - Page 1, 15, 18, 155, 160, 168\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Luigi+Ambrosio%22&sa=X&ei=y4jkUOYWiufRAZOlgLAE&ved=0CDMQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Luigi Ambrosio}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Nicola+Gigli%22&sa=X&ei=y4jkUOYWiufRAZOlgLAE&ved=0CDQQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Nicola Gigli}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&tbo=d&biw=1381&bih=1076&tbm=bks&tbm=bks&q=inauthor:%22Giuseppe+Savar%C3%A9%22&sa=X&ei=y4jkUOYWiufRAZOlgLAE&ved=0CDUQ9AgwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Giuseppe Savar\'e9}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3  
\fs20 \cf0 \ulnone  - 2054 - Birkh\'e4user. Secend edition 2008\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www2.ef.jcu.cz/%7Ehouda/publications/2004-virt-wasserstein.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Wasserstein \ul metrics and empirical distributions in stability of stochastic programs}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www2.ef.jcu.cz/%7Ehouda/publications/2004-virt-wasserstein.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from jcu.cz}}
\b0\fs20 M Houda - \'85 of the International Conference Quantitative Methods \'85, 2004 - ef.jcu.cz\
Abstract Practical economic problems often ask for optimization procedures, not \
unfrequently with random inputs leading thus to stochastic programming models. The \
randomness is modelled through the underlying probability distribution, which is assumed 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=12775293676674187555&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 2}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:I4F1m-n1SrEJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:I4F1m-n1SrEJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.cmu.edu/cna/Publications/publications2004/002abs/04-CNA-002.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Notes on a \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric convergence method for Fokker-Planck equations with point controls}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.cmu.edu/cna/Publications/publications2004/002abs/04-CNA-002.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from cmu.edu}}
\b0\fs20 L Petrelli - 2004 - math.cmu.edu\
Abstract We employ the Monge-Kantorovich mass transfer theory to obtain an existence and \
uniqueness result for Fokker-Planck Equations with time dependent point control. We prove \
existence for an approximate problem and then show convergence in the 
\b Wasserstein ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=8583763734401340006&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 1}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:ZlLfQKOnH3cJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:ZlLfQKOnH3cJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=8583763734401340006&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2004&as_yhi=2004"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 5 versions}}
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mate.unipv.it/toscani/publi/Wasserstein.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Wasserstein \ul metric and large\'96time asymptotics of nonlinear diffusion equations}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mate.unipv.it/toscani/publi/Wasserstein.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from unipv.it}}
\b0\fs20 JA Carrillo\'85 - New Trends in Mathematical Physics (In \'85, 2005 - mate.unipv.it\
We review here various recent applications of Wassertein\'96type metrics to both nonlinear \
partial differential equations and integro\'96differential equations. Among others, we can \
describe the asymptotic behavior of nonlinear friction equations arising in the kinetic 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=16292077858813812944&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 36}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:0KCaU34WGeIJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:0KCaU34WGeIJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=16292077858813812944&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 4 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=1402185"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Optimal quantizer performance and the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distortion}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 S Matloub, DB O'Brien\'85 - \'85 , 2005. Proceedings. DCC \'85, 2005 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
Abstract The 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distortion has proved useful in a variety of mathematical, signal \
processing and coding problems as a measure of how different two distributions are. In this \
paper we provide an expression for the performance of the optimal entropy constrained 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=8932724620349015778&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 2}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:4gZK8LZp93sJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=8932724620349015778&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 7 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.cmu.edu/%7Eadriant/JKO1.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On constrained optimization in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.cmu.edu/%7Eadriant/JKO1.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from cmu.edu}}
\b0\fs20 A Tudorascu - 2005 - math.cmu.edu\
Abstract In this paper we prove the monotonicity of the second-order moments of the discrete \
approximations to the heat equation arising from the Jordan-Kinderlehrer-Otto (JKO) \
variational scheme [7]. This issue appears in the study of constrained optimization in the 2
\b  ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:mIFruQDvVfYJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:mIFruQDvVfYJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+vaserstein+OR+vasershtein+OR+wasserstein+-wendy&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=17750356292740546968&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2005&as_yhi=2005"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 2 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 2006 without Math. Reviews   7  items\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/utvu434602027150.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A new \ulnone Wasserstein \ul based distance for the hierarchical clustering of histogram symbolic data}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "ftp://ftp.turingbirds.com/compsci/Batagelj%20-%20Data%20Science%20and%20Classification%20%28Springer,%202006%29.pdf#page=185"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from turingbirds.com}}
\b0\fs20 A Irpino\'85 - Data Science and Classification, 2006 - Springer\
Symbolic Data Analysis (SDA) aims to to describe and analyze complex and structured data \
extracted, for example, from large databases. Such data, which can be expressed as \
concepts, are modeled by symbolic objects described by multivalued variables. In the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=12223869232278617899&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 16}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:Kz_LSk3oo6kJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=12223869232278617899&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 5 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.99.1311&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dynamic clustering of histograms using \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.99.1311&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from psu.edu}}
\b0\fs20 A Irpino, R Verde\'85 - COMPSTAT, 2006 - Citeseer\
In the present paper we present a new distance, based on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 metric, in order \
to cluster a set of data described by distributions with finite continue support. The proposed \
distance allows to define a measure of inertia of data with respect a barycenter that 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=7923588507141565669&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 13}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:5WyKKsQ99m0J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:5WyKKsQ99m0J:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=7923588507141565669&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 3 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/math/0603435"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Necessary optimality conditions for geodesics in weighted \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0603435"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 L Ambrosio\'85 - Arxiv preprint math/0603435, 2006 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: The geodesic problem in 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 spaces with a metric perturbed by a \
conformal factor is considered, and necessary optimality conditions are estabilished in a \
case where this conformal factor favours the spreading of the probability measure along 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=16748250660255671116&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 9}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:TKO9TT29begJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://direct.bl.uk/research/12/5D/RN205335468.html?source=googlescholar"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 BL Direct}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=16748250660255671116&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 12 versions}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [CITATION] Diffusion is a 2-Wasserstein contraction on any manifold evolving by reverse Ricci flow\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 RJ McCann\'85 - Preprint, 2006\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=6094271487597825333&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 2}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:NU0PD6Ezk1QJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2006&as_yhi=2006"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}}
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\
\
2007 without Math. Reviews 11  items\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 IRPINO A., VERDE R. (2007). 
\b Clustering linear models using Wasserstein distance
\b0 . In: classification and data analysis 2007, book of short paper. cladag 2007. macerata. 12-14 september 2007. (pp. 107-110). ISBN/ISSN: 978-88-6056-020-9. MACERATA: eum (ITALY).\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/n534831m81702716.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Histogram based segmentation using \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distances}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/content/978-3-540-72822-1/"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 Scale Space and Variational Methods in Computer Vision}}
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=Tony+Chan"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf0 Tony Chan}}
\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=Selim+Esedoglu"}}{\fldrslt Selim Esedoglu}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/content/?Author=Kangyu+Ni"}}{\fldrslt Kangyu Ni}}
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/content/0302-9743/"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Lecture Notes in Computer Science}}
\fs24 , 2007, Volume 4485/2007, 697-708,\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.info.unicaen.fr/M2-AMI/articles-2008-2009/chan.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from unicaen.fr}}\cf2 \ul    
\fs20 \cf0 \ulnone  \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 Wasserstein Space and Fokker-Planck Equation\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 S Fang - 2007\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www2.stat.unipd.it/uploads/File/seminari/Abstract_DeWet_7luglio.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Weighted L2-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul Goodness-of-Fit Statistics}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www2.stat.unipd.it/uploads/File/seminari/Abstract_DeWet_7luglio.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from unipd.it}}
\b0\fs20 T de Wet - stat.unipd.it\
Abstract: In two recent papers, del Barrio et al.[2] and del Barrio et al.[3], the authors \
introduced and studied a new class of goodness-of-fit statistics for location-scale families, \
based on L2-functionals of the empirical quantile process. These functionals measure the 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.u-bourgogne.fr/topo/fang/Publications/WassersteinSpace.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Wasserstein \ul space over the Wiener space Shizan FANGa, b Jinghai SHAOb, c Karl-Theodor STURMc a: IMB, BP 47870, Universit\'e9 de Bourgogne, 21078 Dijon \'85}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.u-bourgogne.fr/topo/fang/Publications/WassersteinSpace.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from u-bourgogne.fr}}
\b0\fs20 S FANG, J SHAO\'85 - math.u-bourgogne.fr\
Abstract The goal of this paper is to study optimal transportation problems and gradient flows \
of probability measures on the Wiener space, based on and extending fundamental results \
of Feyel-Ust\'fcnel. Carrying out the program of Ambrosio-Gigli-Savar\'e9, we present a 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/articulo?codigo=2371023"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Curve assolutamente continue negli spazi di \ulnone Wasserstein \ul con applicazioni all'equazione di continuit\'e0 e ad equazioni di diffusione non lineare}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 S Lisini - Bollettino dell unione matematica italiana. Sezione A: \'85, 2007 - dialnet.unirioja.es\
Informaci\'f3n del art\'edculo Curve assolutamente continue negli spazi di 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  con applicazioni\
all'equazione di continuit\'e0 e ad equazioni di diffusione non lineare. 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ems-ph.org/journals/show_pdf.php?issn=1120-6330&vol=18&iss=1&rank=3"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Calculus of variations.\'97Necessary optimality conditions for geodesics in weighted \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces, by LUIGI AMBROSIO and FILIPPO SANTAMBROGIO, \'85}}\cf2 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\i\b0\fs16 \cf0 \ulnone Rend. Lincei Mat. Appl. 18 (2007), 23\'9637
\f1\i0\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ems-ph.org/journals/show_pdf.php?issn=1120-6330&vol=18&iss=1&rank=3"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from ems-ph.org}}
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \ul   
\fs20 \cf0 \ulnone RLM Appl - ems-ph.org\
ABSTRACT.\'97The geodesic problem in 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 spaces with a metric perturbed by a \
conformal factor is considered, and necessary optimality conditions are established in a \
case where this conformal factor favours the spreading of the probability measure along 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mat.uab.es/%7Edifrancesco/WassConvDiff4.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Contractivity and asymptotics in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metrics for viscous nonlinear scalar conservation laws}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mat.uab.es/%7Edifrancesco/WassConvDiff4.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from uab.es}}
\b0\fs20 JA Carrillo, M Di Francesco\'85 - Boll. Unione Mat. Ital. Ser. B \'85, 2007 - mat.uab.es\
Abstract. In this work, recent results concerning the long time asymptotics of one\'96\
dimensional scalar conservation laws with probability densities as initial data are reviewed \
and further applied to the case of viscous conservation laws with nonlinear degenerate 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://matematica.univaq.it/%7Edifrance/equadiff07_1.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Contractivity and asymptotics in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metrics for (viscous) nonlinear scalar conservation laws.}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://matematica.univaq.it/%7Edifrance/equadiff07_1.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from univaq.it}}
\b0\fs20 M Di Francesco - Equadiff, 2007 - matematica.univaq.it\
Our idea follows the paper of Carrillo\'96Di Francesco\'96Toscani (ARMA 2006) for nonlinear \
diffusion equations ut=\uc0\u8710  \u966  (u), where the solution u is rescaled by its own second moment. \
We require the additional assumption on f
\f2 \uc0\u8707 
\f1  \uc0\u945 
\f2 \uc0\u8712 
\f1 (0, 1), r
\f3 \uc0\u8614 \u8594 
\f1  f (r) 1\uc0\u8722  \u945  is convex on (0,+\u8734 ).(
\b  ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 Poster Presentations-3 Image Segmentation and Visual Grouping-Histogram Based Segmentation Using Wasserstein Distances\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 T Chan, S Esedoglu, K Ni - Lecture Notes in \'85, 2007 - Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1973\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf0 2008 without Math. Reviews  12 items 
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 Title: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://apps.isiknowledge.com.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/full_record.do?product=UA&search_mode=GeneralSearch&qid=4&SID=Y26An4OghjlcO@mc5NB&page=5&doc=44&colname=WOS"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Dynamic clustering of interval data using a Wasserstein-based distance}} \
Author(s): Irpino, A; Verde, R\
Source: PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS \'a0\'a0Volume: 29 \'a0\'a0Issue: 11 \'a0\'a0Pages: 1648-1658 \'a0\'a0Published: 2008 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.2752"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cone structure of $ L^ 2$-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0812.2752"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 A 
\b Takatsu
\b0 \'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:0812.2752, 2008 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: The purpose of this paper is to understand the geometric structure of the $ L^ 2$-\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Wasserstein 
\b0 space $\\ pp $ over the Euclidean space. For this sake, we focus on its cone \
structure. One of our main results is that the $ L^ 2$-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space over a Polish 
\b ...\
publ. 1912\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2250"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul On \ulnone Wasserstein \ul geometry of the space of Gaussian measures}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0801.2250"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 A 
\b Takatsu
\b0  - Arxiv preprint arXiv:0801.2250, 2008 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: The space of Gaussian measures on a Euclidean space is geodesically convex in \
the $ L^ 2$-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space. This space is a finite dimensional manifold since Gaussian \
measures are parameterized by means and covariance matrices. By restricting to the 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/0801.2455"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Eulerian calculus for the displacement convexity in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0801.2455"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 S Daneri\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:0801.2455, 2008 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: In this paper we give a new proof of the (strong) displacement convexity of a class \
of integral functionals defined on a compact Riemannian manifold satisfying a lower Ricci \
curvature bound. Our approach does not rely on existence and regularity results for 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=4586684"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul Model reduction of stochastic processes using \ulnone Wasserstein \ul pseudometrics}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nt.ntnu.no/users/skoge/prost/proceedings/acc08/data/papers/0263.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from ntnu.no}}
\b0\fs20 D Thorsley\'85 - American Control Conference, 2008, 2008 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
Abstract We consider the problem of finding reduced models of stochastic processes. We \
use 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 pseudometrics to quantify the difference between processes. The method \
proposed in this paper is applicable to any continuous-time stochastic process with output, 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/0804.3505"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul A geometric study of \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces: Euclidean spaces}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0804.3505"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 B Kloeckner - Arxiv preprint arXiv:0804.3505, 2008 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We study the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space (with quadratic cost) of Euclidean spaces as an \
intrinsic metric space. In particular we compute their isometry groups. Surprisingly, in the \
case of the line, there exists a (unique)" exotic" isometric flow. This contrasts with the case 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.1269"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Well-posedness of a parabolic moving-boundary problem in the setting of \ulnone Wasserstein \ul gradient flows}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0812.1269"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 JW Portegies\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:0812.1269, 2008 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We develop a gradient-flow framework based on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 metric for a \
parabolic moving-boundary problem that models crystal dissolution and precipitation. In \
doing so we derive a new weak formulation for this moving-boundary problem and we 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/M6J5Q7565T725748.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul A New Interval Data Distance Based on the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Metric}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 R Verde\'85 - Data Analysis, Machine Learning and Applications, 2008 - Springer\
Interval data allow statistical units to be described by means of interval values, whereas their \
representation by single values appears to be too reductive or inconsistent, that is, unable to \
keep the uncertainty usually inherent to the observed data. In the present paper, we 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.inria.fr/docs/00/27/50/67/PDF/wasserstein.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A geometric study of the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul space of the line}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.inria.fr/docs/00/27/50/67/PDF/wasserstein.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from inria.fr}}
\b0\fs20 B Kloeckner - Preprint, 2008 - hal.inria.fr\
The concept of optimal transportation raised recently a growing interest in link with the \
geometry of metric spaces. In particular the L2 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space W2 (X) have been used in \
[6] and [8, 9] to define certain curvature conditions on a metric space X. Many useful 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://link.aip.org/link/?APCPCS/1048/440/1"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Kantorovich\uc0\u8208 \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance for Identifying the Dynamic of Some Compartmental Models in Biology}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 J Pousin - AIP Conference Proceedings, 2008 - link.aip.org\
Determining the influence of a biological species to the evolution of an other one strongly \
depends on the choice of mathematical models in biology. In this work we consider the case \
of distribution of lipids (docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) in two compartments of the plasma, 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.bnu.edu.cn/probab/Workshop2008/Talks/ShizanFang.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Introduction to \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Spaces}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.bnu.edu.cn/probab/Workshop2008/Talks/ShizanFang.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from bnu.edu.cn}}
\b0\fs20 S Fang - 2008 - math.bnu.edu.cn\
Page 1. Introduction to 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  Spaces Shizan Fang Stochastic research Center, Beijing\
Normal University Beijing, 100875, China 
\b ...
\b0  The purpose of this lecture is to understand the\
geometric structure of P2(Rd). 1 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  Space (P2(Rd), W2) 1.1 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-roc.inria.fr/axis/COMPSTAT2010/images/COMPSTAT10_abstract.pdf#page=431"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Ordinary Least Squares for Histogram Data Based on \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 R Verde\'85 - COMPSTAT'2010 Book of Abstracts, 2008 - www-roc.inria.fr\
Abstract. Histogram data is a kind of symbolic representation which allows to describe an \
individual by an empirical frequency distribution. In this paper we introduce a linear \
regression model for histogram variables. We present a new Ordinary Least Squares 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\qc

\f1 \cf0 2009 without Math. Reviews  19 items
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
Title: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://apps.isiknowledge.com/full_record.do?product=UA&search_mode=GeneralSearch&qid=1&SID=1AMplCHkkpebKmk3mCO&page=3&doc=23&colname=WOS"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Non-monotone Convergence in the Quadratic Wasserstein Distance}} \
Author(s): Schachermayer, W; Schmock, U; Teichmann, J\
Source: SEMINAIRE DE PROBABILITES XLII \'a0\'a0Volume: 1979 \'a0\'a0Pages: 131-136 \'a0\'a0Published: 2009 
\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Title: Local Histogram Based Segmentation Using the Wasserstein Distance \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Author(s): Ni, K; Bresson, X; Chan, T, et al.\
Source: INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF COMPUTER VISION \'a0\'a0Volume: 84 \'a0\'a0Issue: 1 \'a0\'a0Pages: 97-111 \'a0\'a0Published: 2009 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4373"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul A \ulnone Wasserstein \ul approach to the one-dimensional sticky particle system}}
\f1\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0902.4373"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 L Natile\'85 - Arxiv preprint arxiv:0902.4373, 2009 - arxiv.org\
Abstract. We present a simple approach to study the one\'96dimensional pressureless Euler system \
via adhesion dynamics in the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space P2(R) of probability measures with finite quadratic \
moments. Starting from a discrete system of a finite number of \'93sticky\'94 particles, we obtain 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cvgmt.sns.it/media/doc/paper/1116/Li_NonLin_cvgmt.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Nonlinear diffusion equations with variable coefficients as gradient flows in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cvgmt.sns.it/media/doc/paper/1116/Li_NonLin_cvgmt.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from sns.it}}
\b0\fs20 S Lisini - ESAIM Control Optim. Calc. Var, 2009 - cvgmt.sns.it\
Abstract We study existence and approximation of non-negative solutions of partial \
differential equations of the type\uc0\u8706  tu\u8722  div (A (
\f2 \uc0\u8711 
\f1 (f (u))+ u
\f2 \uc0\u8711 
\f1  V))= 0 in (0,+\uc0\u8734 )\'d7 Rn,(0.1) where \
A is a symmetric matrix-valued function of the spatial variable satisfying a uniform ellipticity 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=6428932907463319737&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 2}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:uaAr2mooOFkJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2009&as_yhi=2009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:uaAr2mooOFkJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2009&as_yhi=2009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=6428932907463319737&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2009&as_yhi=2009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 15 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitallibrary.sissa.it/handle/1963/3583"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Estimates on path functionals over \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://digitallibrary.sissa.it/bitstream/handle/1963/3583/estimates_path_functionals.prerint.pdf?sequence=2"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from sissa.it}}
\b0\fs20 S Bianchini\'85 - 2009 - digitallibrary.sissa.it\
In this paper we consider the class a functionals (introduced in [Brancolini, Buttazzo, and \
Santambrogio, J. Eur. Math. Soc.(JEMS), 8 (2006), pp. 415-434] $\\ mathcal \{G\} _ \{r, p\} $ \
defined on Lipschitz curves $\\ gamma $ valued in the $ p $-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space. The 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/G640P5581272KT28.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Non-monotone convergence in the quadratic \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0704.0876"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 W Schachermayer, U Schmock\'85 - S\'e9minaire de Probabilit\'e9s \'85, 2009 - Springer\
Summary. We give an easy counterexample to Problem 7.20 from C. Villani's book on mass \
transport: in general, the quadratic 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance between n-fold normalized \
convolutions of two given measures fails to decrease monotonically.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=5203826"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul distance for the fusion of multisensor multitarget particle filter clouds}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://isif.org/fusion/proceedings/fusion09CD/data/papers/0428.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from isif.org}}
\b0\fs20 D Danu, T Kirubarajan\'85 - Information Fusion, 2009. \'85, 2009 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org"}}{\fldrslt ieeexplore.ieee.org}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f4\b\fs16 \cf0 12th International Conference on Information Fusion Seattle, WA, USA, July 6-9, 2009
\f1\b0\fs20 \
Abstract In a multisensor multitarget tracking application, the evaluation of the cost of \
assigning particle filter clouds of different sensors as being estimates of the same target is \
an essential part in the particle cloud association. This paper treats the problem of 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kurims.kyoto-u.ac.jp/%7Ekyodo/kokyuroku/contents/pdf/1671-02.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Wasserstein \ul geometry of non-linear Fokker-Planck type equations}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.kurims.kyoto-u.ac.jp/%7Ekyodo/kokyuroku/contents/pdf/1671-02.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from kyoto-u.ac.jp}}
\f5\b0\fs20 \'93\'8c\'96\'6b\'91\'e5\'8a\'77\'91\'e5\'8a\'77\'89\'40\'97\'9d\'8a\'77\'8c\'a4\'8b\'86\'89\'c8\'8d\'82\'92\'c3\'94\'f2\'92\'b9
\f1  - 
\f5 \'90\'94\'97\'9d\'89\'f0\'90\'cd\'8c\'a4\'8b\'86\'8f\'8a\'8d\'75\'8b\'86\'98\'5e
\f1 , 2009 - kurims.kyoto-u.ac.jp\
This note is a survey of the author's preprint [17], which concerns the geometric structure of \
the $(l $-Gaussian measures in terms of $ L^\{2\}-$ 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 geometry and solutions to \
porous medium equations. We give an explicit expression of the solution to the porous 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=13043066740404623006&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cited by 1}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:npaHYxhIArUJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2009&as_yhi=2009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:npaHYxhIArUJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2009&as_yhi=2009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 View as HTML}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=13043066740404623006&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2009&as_yhi=2009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 3 versions}}\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0893965909000457"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric convergence method for Fokker-Planck equations with point controls}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 L Petrelli\'85 - Applied Mathematics Letters, 2009 - Elsevier\
Monge\'96Kantorovich mass transfer theory is employed to obtain an existence and \
uniqueness result for solutions to Fokker\'96Planck Equations with time dependent point \
control. Existence for an approximate problem is established together with a convergence 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://smartech.gatech.edu/handle/1853/29720"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Hamiltonian systems and the calculus of differential forms on the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul space}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://smartech.gatech.edu/bitstream/handle/1853/29720/kim_hwakil_200908_phd.pdf?sequence=1"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from gatech.edu}}
\b0\fs20 HK Kim - 2009 - smartech.gatech.edu\
This thesis consists of two parts. In the first part, we study stability properties of Hamiltonian \
systems on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space. Let H be a Hamiltonian satisfying conditions imposed in \
the work of Ambrosio and Gangbo. We regularize H via Moreau-Yosida approximation to 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.stanford.edu/%7Ememoli/talks/tgda-09.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gromov-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul stable signatures for object matching and the role of persistence}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.stanford.edu/%7Ememoli/talks/tgda-09.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from stanford.edu}}
\b0\fs20 F M\'e9moli - math.stanford.edu\
Page 1. 1 Gromov-
\b Wasserstein
\b0  stable signatures for object matching and the role of persistence\
Facundo M\'e9moli memoli@math.stanford.edu Page 2. 2 
\b ...
\b0  tiants. Page 28. 19 Construction of the\
Gromov-
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance(s) mm-spaces and their invariants Page 29. 3/4 1/4 1 1/2 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.citeulike.org/group/3742/article/3937052"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul Spectral gaps in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distances and the 2D stochastic Navier&# 45; &# 45; Stokes equations}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 M Hairer\'85 - 2009 - citeulike.org\
Abstract We develop a general method to prove the existence of spectral gaps for Markov \
semigroups on Banach spaces. Unlike most previous work, the type of norm we consider for \
this analysis is neither a weighted supremum norm nor an $\\ L^ p $-type norm, but 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://alexandria.tue.nl/extra1/afstversl/wsk-i/srivastava2009.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Numerical Algorithm for Computation of the 2-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance, and Applications to the Foundations of Diffusion}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://alexandria.tue.nl/extra1/afstversl/wsk-i/srivastava2009.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from tue.nl}}
\b0\fs20 S Srivastava, MA Peletier - 2009 - alexandria.tue.nl\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/5m4r1q8w3715725k.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Polynomial Birth\'96Death Distribution Approximation in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0812.4847"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 A Xia\'85 - Journal of Theoretical Probability, 2009 - Springer\
Abstract The polynomial birth\'96death distribution (abbreviated, PBD) on 
\f3 \uc0\u8464 
\f1 =\{0, 1, 2,\'85\} or \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f3 \cf0 \uc0\u8464 
\f1 =\{0, 1, 2,\'85, m\} for some finite m introduced in Brown and Xia (Ann. Probab. 29: 1373\'96\
1403, 2001) is the equilibrium distribution of the birth\'96death process with birth rates \{\uc0\u945  i\} 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ci.nii.ac.jp/naid/110007470422/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ulnone Wasserstein \ul geometry of non-linear Fokker-Planck type equations (Variational Problems and Related Topics)}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f5\b0\fs20 \cf0 \'8d\'82\'92\'c3\'94\'f2\'92\'b9
\f1  - 
\f5 \'90\'94\'97\'9d\'89\'f0\'90\'cd\'8c\'a4\'8b\'86\'8f\'8a\'8d\'75\'8b\'86\'98\'5e
\f1 , 2009 - ci.nii.ac.jp\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  
\f5 \'98\'5f\'95\'b6\'96\'bc
\f1 , 
\f5 \'92\'98\'8e\'d2\'96\'bc
\f1 , 
\f5 \'92\'98\'8e\'d2\'8f\'8a\'91\'ae
\f1 , 
\f5 \'8a\'a7\'8d\'73\'95\'a8\'96\'bc
\f1 , ISSN, 
\f5 \'8a\'aa
\f1 , 
\f5 \'8d\'86
\f1 , 
\f5 \'83\'79\'81\'5b\'83\'57
\f1 , 
\f5 \'8f\'6f\'94\'c5\'8e\'d2
\f1 , 
\f5 \'8e\'51\'8d\'6c\'95\'b6\'8c\'a3
\f1 , 
\f5 \'8f\'6f\'94\'c5\'94\'4e
\f1 , 
\f5 \'94\'4e\'82\'a9\'82\'e7
\f1  
\f5 \'94\'4e\'82\'dc\'82\'c5
\f1 .\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f5 \cf0 \'82\'b7\'82\'d7\'82\'c4
\f1  CiNii
\f5 \'82\'c9\'96\'7b\'95\'b6\'82\'a0\'82\'e8
\f1  CiNii
\f5 \'82\'c9\'96\'7b\'95\'b6\'82\'a0\'82\'e8\'81\'41\'82\'dc\'82\'bd\'82\'cd\'98\'41\'8c\'67\'83\'54\'81\'5b\'83\'72\'83\'58\'82\'d6\'82\'cc\'83\'8a\'83\'93\'83\'4e\'82\'a0\'82\'e8
\f1 . 
\b \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Mathematical Institute, Tohoku University   RIMS Kokyuroku 1671, 20-36, 2009-12
\b\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/articulo?codigo=3034711"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul entropic measure and \ulnone Wasserstein \ul diffusion.}}
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/autor?codigo=2490389"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Max-K. von Renesse}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/autor?codigo=2490391"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Karl-Theodor Sturm}}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/revista?codigo=3568"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul Annals of probability: An official journal of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics}}, ISSN 0091-1798, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dialnet.unirioja.es/servlet/listaarticulos?tipo_busqueda=EJEMPLAR&revista_busqueda=3568&clave_busqueda=228038"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul N\'ba. 3, 2009}} , p\'e1gs. 1114-1191\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 dialnet.unirioja.es\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 ...
\b0  Ayuda; Cambiar idioma Idioma Catal\'e0. Cambiar. entropic measure and 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  diffusion. 
\b ...
\b0  \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:GinQv_PqBP4J:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2009&as_yhi=2009"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \
}}\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=5203826"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul distance for the \ulnone fusion \ul of multisensor multitarget particle filter clouds}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://isif.org/fusion/proceedings/fusion09CD/data/papers/0428.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from isif.org}}
\b0\fs20 D Danu, T Kirubarajan\'85 - 
\b Information Fusion
\b0 , 2009. \'85, 2009 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
Abstract In a multisensor multitarget tracking application, the evaluation of the cost of \
assigning particle filter clouds of different sensors as being estimates of the same target is \
an essential part in the particle cloud association. This paper treats the problem of 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f4\fs16 \cf0 12th International Conference on Information Fusion Seattle, WA, USA, July 6-9, 2009\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/xx765369u31t5k66.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs28 \cf2 \ul Local histogram based segmentation using the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}
\f1\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://escholarship.org/uc/item/1q41j9dt.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from escholarship.org}}
\b0\fs20 K Ni, X Bresson, T Chan\'85 - International journal of computer \'85, 2009 - Springer\
Abstract We propose and analyze a nonparametric region-based active contour model for \
segmenting cluttered scenes. The proposed model is unsupervised and assumes pixel \
intensity is independently identically distributed. Our proposed energy functional consists 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=5457690"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Spectral Gromov-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul distances for shape matching}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://math.stanford.edu/%7Ememoli/papers/dgw-spec-nordia-theo.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from stanford.edu}}
\b0\fs20 F M\'e9moli - \'85 Vision Workshops (ICCV Workshops), 2009 IEEE \'85, 2009 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
Abstract We introduce a spectral notion of distance between shapes and study its theoretical \
properties. We show that our distance satisfies the properties of a metric on the class of \
isometric shapes, which means, in particular, that two shapes are at 0 distance if and only 
\b ...\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs28 \cf0 2010 not in Math. Reviews  20 items  
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Irpino A., Verde R. (2010).{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/content/t454h3261708l65t/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b \cf3  Ordinary Least Squares for histogram data based on Wasserstein distance.}} In:\'a0 LECHEVALLIER YVES, SAPORTA GILBERT. Proceedings of COMPSTAT'2010. (pp. 581-589). ISBN: 978-3-7908-2603-6. HEIDELBERG: Physica Verlag (GERMANY).\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/g1782571v5314077.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 IRPINO A., VERDE R. (2010). 
\b \ulnone Clustering Linear Models Using Wasserstein Distance
\b0 \ul , In: Data Analysis and Classification,Proceedings of the 6th Conference of the Classification and Data Analysis Group of the Societ\'e0 Italiana di Statistica}},Series: Studies in Classification, Data Analysis, and Knowledge Organization , Palumbo, Francesco; Lauro, Carlo Natale; Greenacre, Michael J. (Eds.), 2010, ISBN: 978-3-642-03738-2, pages 41-48.\
\
Title: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://apps.isiknowledge.com/full_record.do?product=UA&search_mode=GeneralSearch&qid=8&SID=1EKcP7ih5pbgCCCoAGN&page=2&doc=11&colname=WOS"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 Approximating stochastic biochemical processes with Wasserstein pseudometrics}} \
Author(s): Thorsley, D; Klavins, E\
Source: IET SYSTEMS BIOLOGY \'a0\'a0Volume: 4 \'a0\'a0Issue: 3 \'a0\'a0Pages: 193-211 \'a0\'a0Published: 2010\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 Abstract: Modelling stochastic processes inside the cell is difficult due to the size and complexity \
of the processes being investigated. As a result, new approaches are needed to address the \
problems of model reduction, parameter estimation, model comparison and model 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.cnki.com.cn/Article_en/CJFDTotal-ZGTB201009009.htm"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Texture segmentation based on the use of the structure tensor and the \ulnone wasserstein \ul distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 X XIE\'85 - Journal of Image and Graphics, 2010 - en.cnki.com.cn\
Nonparametric region-based active contour models have been widely used in the field of image \
segmentation.The proposed new model which is based on the use of the structure tensor and \
the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance belongs to this category.First,the classical tensor structure 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://basepub.dauphine.fr/handle/123456789/4053"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul Barycenter and its Application to Texture Mixing}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 J Delon, G Peyr\'e9, J Rabin\'85 - 2010 - basepub.dauphine.fr\
This paper proposes a new definition of the averaging of discrete probability distributions as \
a barycenter over the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space. Replacing the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  original metric by a sliced \
approximation over 1D distributions allows us to use a fast stochastic gradient descent 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ejournal.org.cn/english/qikan/epaper/zhaiyao.asp?bsid=14805"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul distance based local energy model of segmentation}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 XH Qian, SX Guo\'85 - Dianzi Xuebao(Acta Electronica Sinica), 2010 - ejournal.org.cn\
Abstract A nonparametric 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance-based active contour model that is able to utilize \
image histogram information in local region is presented. To quantify the similarity between two \
regions, we proposed to compare their respective histograms using the 
\b Wasserstein ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1011.0236"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A maximum principle for pointwise energies of quadratic \ulnone Wasserstein \ul minimal networks}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1011.0236"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 J Dahl - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1011.0236, 2010 - arxiv.org\
Given k points p1,...,pk in a geodesic space1 Y , one can ask for a minimal net- work spanning \
p1,...,pk. For a complete, connected Riemannian manifold M, the space of Borel probability measure \
P(M) may be metrized, allowing infinite dis- tances, by the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance W2 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cvgmt.sns.it/papers/san10/X-EDP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Gradient flows in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces and applications to crowd movement}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://cvgmt.sns.it/papers/san10/X-EDP.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from sns.it}}
\b0\fs20 F Santambrogio - 2010 - cvgmt.sns.it\
Abstract Starting from a motivation in the modeling of crowd movement, the paper presents the \
topics of gradient flows, first in Rn, then in metric spaces, and finally in the space of prob- ability \
measures endowed with the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance (induced by the quadratic trans- port 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.maths.bath.ac.uk/%7Ezimmer/publications/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 From a large-deviations principle to the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul gradient flow: a new micro-macro passage}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 H Schwetlick, J Zimmer, J Zimmer\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.153.9808&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Entropic Burgers' equation via a minimizing movement scheme based on the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.153.9808&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from psu.edu}}
\b0\fs20 N 
\b Gigli
\b0 \'85 - 2010 - Citeseer \
The aim of this paper is twofold. On one side we give a simpler proof of a result found by the \
second author ([4]). This amounts in proving that the minimizing movements scheme for the Energy \
E(\uc0\u952 ) = \u8722 \u8747  x\u952 dx on a two-phase 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space produces the entropy solution of the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://atlas-conferences.com/cgi-bin/abstract/cbal-42"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul space over Hadamard space}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 J Bertrand - Workshop on Geometric Probability and \'85, 2010 - atlas-conferences.com\
In the talk, I will consider the quadratic 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space over a metric space of non-positive \
curvature (globally). Despite the fact that the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space does not inherit the curvature \
property, I will show that some asymptotical properties extend to the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space.
\f0\fs16 \

\f1\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1010.0590"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A geometric study of \ulnone wasserstein \ul spaces: Hadamard spaces}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1010.0590"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 J Bertrand\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1010.0590, 2010 - arxiv.org\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.casac-art.net/CS/selinger-renormalized_laplacian-extended_version.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Zeta function regularized Laplacian on the smooth \ulnone Wasserstein \ul space above the unit circle}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.casac-art.net/CS/selinger-renormalized_laplacian-extended_version.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from casac-art.net}}
\b0\fs20 C Selinger - casac-art.net\
Definition 1.1. Let (M, 
\f2 \uc0\u12296 
\f1 ., .
\f2 \uc0\u12297 
\f1 x) denote a complete simply connected Riemannian mani- fold without \
boundary and T1 denote R mod Z equipped with the flat metric. \'95 P(M) := P = \{\'b5 Borel probability \
measure on M and \uc0\u8747  dM (x, y)2\'b5(dx) < \u8734 \} \'95 Pac(M) := Pac = \{\'b5 
\f2 \uc0\u8712 
\f1  P : \'b5 
\f6 \uc0\u8810 
\f1  volM \} \'95 P\uc0\u8734 (M) 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:pre06056477&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Zbl pre06056477}}
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2009arXiv0910.1741K"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Duality on gradient estimates and Wasserstein controls}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 K Kuwada - 2009 - adsabs.harvard.edu\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/0910.1741"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}K 
\b Kuwada
\b0  - Journal of Functional Analysis, 2010 - Elsevier\
We establish a duality between Lp-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 control and Lq-gradient estimate in a \
general framework. Our result extends a known result for a heat flow on a Riemannian \
manifold. Especially, we can derive a 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 control of a heat flow directly from the 
\b ...
\f0\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.153.7800&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 First variation formula in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces over compact Alexandrov spaces}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.153.7800&rep=rep1&type=pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from psu.edu}}
\b0\fs20 N 
\b Gigli
\b0 \'85 - Preprint, 2010 - Citeseer\
This paper should be considered as an addendum to [Oh] of the second author. In [Oh], it is studied \
the quadratic 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space (P(X),W2) built over a compact Alexandrov space X with curvature \
bounded below, and proven the existence of Euclidean tangent cones (see also [Gi]). 
\b ...\
publ. 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1004.4076"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 From a large-deviations principle to the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul gradient flow: a new micro-macro passage}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1004.4076"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 S Adams, N Dirr, M Peletier\'85 - \'85 online from http://arxiv. org/abs/ \'85, 2010 - arxiv.org\
Abstract. We study the connection between a system of many independent Brownian particles \
on one hand and the deterministic diffusion equation on the other. For a fixed time step h > \
0, a large-deviations rate functional Jh characterizes the behaviour of the particle system 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00476064/"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul Barycenter and its Application to Texture Mixing}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 R Julien, G Peyr\'e9, J Delon\'85 - 2010 - hal.archives-ouvertes.fr\
This paper proposes a new definition of the averaging of discrete probability distributions as \
a barycenter over the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space. Replacing the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  original metric by a sliced \
approximation over 1D distributions allows us to use a fast stochastic gradient descent 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Book Editor(s): Bruckstein, AM; Romeny, BMT; Bronstein, AM; et al.\
Conference: 3rd International Conference on Scale Space and Variational Methods in Computer Vision Location: Ein Gedi, ISRAEL Date: MAY 29-JUN 02, 2011 \
Sponsor(s): Technion Dept Comp Sci; HP Lab Israel; Rafael Ltd; BBK Technol Ltd; European Commun FP7 ERC FIRST Programs\
Source: SCALE SPACE AND VARIATIONAL METHODS IN COMPUTER VISION\'a0\'a0Book Series: Lecture Notes in Computer Science \'a0\'a0Volume: 6667 \'a0\'a0Pages: 435-446 \'a0\'a0Published: 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs20 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://d.wanfangdata.com.cn/periodical_zgtxtxxb-a201009009.aspx"}}{\fldrslt 
\f5\fs28 \cf2 \ul \'8a\'ee\'98\'b0
\f7\b0 \'bd\'e1\'b9\'b9\'d5\'c5\'c1\'bf\'ba\'cd
\f1\b  \ulnone Wasserstein 
\f5 \ul \'8b\'97\uc0\u31163 \'93\'49
\f7\b0 \'ce\'c6\'c0\'ed\'cd\'bc\'cf\'f1\'b7\'d6\'b8\'ee}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f7\b0\fs20 \cf0 \'d0\'bb\'cf\'fe\'d5\'f1
\f1 \'85 - 
\f5 \'92\'86\'8d\'91
\f7 \'cd\'bc\'cf\'f3\'cd\'bc\'d0\'ce\'d1\'a7\'b1\'a8
\f1  A, 2010 - 
\f5 \'96\'9c\'95\'fb\'90\'94\'90\'98
\f7 \'d7\'ca\'d4\'b4\'cf\'b5\'cd\'b3
\f1 \
Yezzi Jr,Tsai A,Willsky AA statistical approach to snakes for bimodal and trimodal \
imagery[C]//Proceedings of International Conference on Computer Vision.Washington,DC,USA\
:IEEE,1999:898-903. 
\b ...
\b0  Rousson M,Brox T,Deriche R.Active unsupervised texture 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://210.29.99.10/ztnews/upfiles/edit/201006/20100630085958.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\f5 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 \'8a\'ee\'98\'b0
\f1  \ulnone Wasserstein 
\f5 \ul \'8b\'97\uc0\u31163 \'93\'49\'8b\'c7\'95\'94\'94\'5c\'97\'ca\'95\'aa\'8a\'84\'96\'cd\'8c\'5e}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://210.29.99.10/ztnews/upfiles/edit/201006/20100630085958.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from 210.29.99.10}}
\f7\b0\fs20 \'c7\'ae\'cf\'fe\'bb\'aa\'a3\'ac
\f1  
\f5 \'8a\'73
\f7 \'ca\'f7\'d0\'f1
\f1 \'85 - 
\f7 \'b5\'e7\'d7\'d3\'d1\'a7\'b1\'a8
\f1 , 2010 - 210.29.99.10
\fs24 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs34 \cf0 2011  not in Math. Reviews  31 items 
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00744813/"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf3 Regularisation de Wasserstein et Application au Transfert de Couleur}}
\fs24  ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://sites.google.com/site/rabinjulien/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 J. Rabin}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ceremade.dauphine.fr/%7epeyre/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 G. Peyr\'e9}}), Gretsi'11, 2011. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ceremade.dauphine.fr/%7Epeyre/publications/bibtexbrowser.php?key=rabin-gretsi-wasserregul-11&bib=peyre-biblio-string.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-articles.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-book.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-bookchap.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-en.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-fr.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-preprint.bib"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [bib]}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00744813/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [pdf]}}\cf3 \ul \ulc3 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 E. Boissard, and T. le Gouic, \'93\'93
\b\fs28 Exact\'94 Deviations in Wasserstein Distance for Empirical and Occupation Measures
\b0\fs24 \'94, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3188v1,"}}{\fldrslt Preprint, arXiv:1103.3188v1, }} 2011.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.iitp.ru/en/users/293.htm"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \ul Veretennikov A.}}
\f1\fs24  (With O.A.Butkovsky) On asymptotics of Vaserstein"s coupling for a Markov chain. International Mathematical Conference "50 years of IPPI", July 25-29 2011 Moscow, Russia, Proceedings, ISBN 978-5-901158-15-9\uc0\u8232 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.iitp.ru/ru/conferences/839.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Go to publication}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.iitp.ru/upload/publications/5710/Butkovsky%20Veretennikov_iitp50.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Download (241.6 KB)}}
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.3250"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul distances for discrete measures and convergence in nonparametric mixture models}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1109.3250"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 XL Nguyen - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1109.3250, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We consider 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance functionals for comparing between and \
assessing the convergence of latent discrete measures, which serve as mixing distributions \
in hierarchical and nonparametric mixture models. We explore the space of discrete 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.3963"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 A Monotone Approximation to the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Diffusion}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1105.3963"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 KT Sturm - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1105.3963, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: Von Renesse and the author (Ann. Prob.'09) developed a second order calculus \
on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space P ([0, 1]) of probability measures on the unit interval. The basic \
objects of interest had been Dirichlet form, semigroup and continuous Markov process, 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1106.2555"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Transport equation with nonlocal velocity in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces: existence, uniqueness and numerical schemes}}
\b\fs28  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1106.2555"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [\
PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 B Piccoli\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1106.2555, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: Motivated by pedestrian modelling, we study evolution of measures in the \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Wasserstein 
\b0 space. In particular, we consider the Cauchy problem for a transport equation, \
where the velocity field depends on the measure itself. We prove existence and 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/NX6H33M206334653.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc3 Functional inequalities for the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Dirichlet Form}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www3.mathematik.tu-darmstadt.de/fileadmin/home/users/54/Proceeding_Ascona.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from tu-darmstadt.de}}
\b0\fs20 W Stannat - Seminar on Stochastic Analysis, Random Fields and \'85, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/content/l8h4v0/"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Progress in Probability}}
\fs24 , 2011, \
Volume 63, Part 1, 245-260, 
\fs20    Springer\
Abstract. We give an alternative representation of the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  Dirichlet form that was introduced \
by von Renesse and Sturm in [7]. Based on this alternative representation we improve and generalize \
the Poincar\'e9 and loga- rithmic Sobolev inequality obtained for the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  Dirichlet 
\b ...
\b0  
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.citeulike.org/group/3742/article/2058201"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc3 Quantitative bounds for Markov chain convergence: \ulnone Wasserstein \ul and total variation distances}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 R Gr\'fcbel - 2011 - citeulike.org\

\b ...
\b0  
\b wasserstein
\b0  statistics pearson mcmc coupling. Search all the public and authenticated\
articles in CiteULike. 
\b ...
\b0  Tags. Quantitative bounds for Markov chain convergence:\

\b Wasserstein
\b0  and total variation distances. by: Rudolf Gr\'fcbel. 
\b ...
\b0  
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00591279/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul Regularization of Imaging Problems}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/docs/00/59/12/79/PDF/wasserstein_variational_prox.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from archives-ouvertes.fr}}
\b0\fs20 J Rabin\'85G Peyr\'e9  - 2011 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr"}}{\fldrslt hal.archives-ouvertes.fr}} 
\fs24 Proc. ICIP'11, pp. 1541-1544, 2011. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ceremade.dauphine.fr/%7Epeyre/publications/bibtexbrowser.php?key=rabin-icip-11&bib=peyre-biblio-string.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-articles.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-book.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-bookchap.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-en.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-fr.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-preprint.bib"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [bib]}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00591279"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [pdf]}} 
\fs20 \
ABSTRACT This paper introduces a novel and generic framework embedding statistical constraints \
for variational problems. We resort to the the- ory of Monge-Kantorovich optimal mass transport \
to define penalty terms depending on statistics from images. To cope with the com- 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://basepub.dauphine.fr/xmlui/handle/123456789/6338"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul Active Contours}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 J Rabin, J Fadili\'85 - 2011 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://basepub.dauphine.fr"}}{\fldrslt basepub.dauphine.fr}} \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/docs/00/59/34/24/PDF/wasserstein-active-contours.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from archives-ouvertes.fr}}G Peyr\'e9, J Fadili, J Rabin - 2011 - hal.archives-ouvertes.fr\
In this paper, we propose a novel and rigorous framework for region-based active contours that \
combines the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance between statistical distributions in arbitrary dimension and \
shape derivative tools. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first variational image 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1109.6776"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Behaviors of $\\ phi $-exponential distributions in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul geometry and an evolution equation}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1109.6776"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 A Takatsu - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1109.6776, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: A $\\ phi $-exponential distribution is a generalization of an exponential distribution \
associated to functions $\\ phi $ in an appropriate class, and the space of $\\ phi $-\
exponential distributions has a dually flat structure. We study features of the space of $\\ 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://basepub.dauphine.fr/xmlui/handle/123456789/6354"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 Wasserstein \ul Regularization of Imaging Problems}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 G Peyr\'e9\'85 - ICIP 2011: 2011 IEEE International \'85, 2011 - basepub.dauphine.fr\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3401"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Stability of the global attractor under Markov-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul noise}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1103.3401"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 M Kell - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1103.3401, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract. We develop a \'93weak Wa\uc0\u380 ewski principle\'94 for discrete and contin- uous time dynamical \
systems on metric spaces having a weaker topology to show that attractors can be continued \
in a weak sense. After showing that the 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  space of a proper metric space is 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.2883"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc3 Optimal Transport and Ricci Curvature: \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Space Over the Interval}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1105.2883"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 O Chodosh - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1105.2883, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract. In this essay, we discuss the notion of optimal transport on (geodesic) metric \
spaces, and the associated (2-)
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance. We then examine displacement convexity \
of the en- tropy functional on P(X) and associated synthetic Ricci lower bounds. In 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1105.5263"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 On the mean speed of convergence of empirical and occupation measures in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1105.5263"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 E Boissard\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1105.5263, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract. In this work, we provide non-asymptotic bounds for the average speed of convergence \
of the empirical measure in the law of large numbers, in 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance. We also consider \
occupation measures of ergodic Markov chains. One motivation is the approximation of a 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/iel5/6081149/6089351/06089580.pdf?arnumber=6089580"}}{\fldrslt 
\i\fs28 \cf3 Existence and Uniqueness of GEXIT Curves via the Wasserstein
\i0 \ul  \ulnone ...}}
\b0\fs24 \
2011 Shrinivas Kudekar
\f2 \uc0\u8727 
\f1 , Tom Richardson\'86 and R\'fcdiger Urbanke\'87. 
\f2 \uc0\u8727 
\f1 . Center for Nonlinear 
\b ...
\b0\fs20 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.3188"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 " Exact" deviations in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance for empirical and occupation measures}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1103.3188"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 E Boissard\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1103.3188, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract. We study the problem of so-called \'93exact\'94 or non-asymptotic de- viations between a \
reference measure \'b5 and its empirical version Ln, in the p-
\b Wasserstein
\b0  metric, 1 \uc0\u8804  p \u8804  2, under \
the standing assumption that \'b5 satis- fies a transport-entropy inequality. This work is a 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.1462"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc3 Dynamic Clustering of Histogram Data Based on Adaptive Squared \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distances}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1110.1462"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 A Irpino, R Verde\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1110.1462, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: This paper deals with clustering methods based on adaptive distances for \
histogram data using a dynamic clustering algorithm. Histogram data describes individuals \
in terms of empirical distributions. These kind of data can be considered as complex 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/inria-00607806/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Deconvolution for the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Metric and Geometric Inference}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/docs/00/60/78/06/PDF/RR-7678.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from archives-ouvertes.fr}}
\b0\fs20 C Caillerie, F Chazal, J Dedecker\'85 - 2011 - hal.archives-ouvertes.fr\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Claire Caillerie \'97 Fr\'e9d\'e9ric Chazal \'97 J\'e9r\'f4me Dedecker \'97 Bertrand Michel
\f1\fs20 \
- Electronic Journal of \'85, 2011\
Abstract: Recently,[4] have defined a distance function to measures to answer geometric \
inference problems in a probabilistic setting. According to their result, the topological \
properties of a shape can be recovered by using the distance to a known measure \uc0\u957 , if \u957  is 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cqvip.com/qk/88688x/201115/38202696.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Kantorovich-Rubinstein-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul Lp-
\f5 \'8b\'97\uc0\u31163 
\f1  (p> 2)}}
\b\fs28   
\f5\b0\fs20 \'92\'be
\f7 \'d2\'f8\'b7\'bc
\f1  - 
\f5 \'89\'c8\'8b\'5a\'90\'4d\'91\'a7
\f1 , 2011 - cqvip.com\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 SHEN Yin Fong\
Kantorovich-Rubinstein-Wasserstein Lp-distance (p> 2)\
 Zhejiang Finance and Economics College of Mathematics and Statistics , Zhejiang Hangzhou 310018,\
Abstract: This article get Euclidean plane bounded region's diverse Kantorovich-Rubinstein-Wasserstein Lp-distance (abbreviated as an accurate representation of: KRW-Lp distance), \
a given from the point of view of the theory of probability prove
\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-m8.ma.tum.de/personen/matthes/papers/wasser2_pre.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Cahn-hilliard and thin film equations as gradient flow in \ulnone wasserstein\ul -like metrics}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www-m8.ma.tum.de/personen/matthes/papers/wasser2_pre.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from tum.de}}
\b0\fs20 S Lisini, D Matthes\'85 - Preprint, 2011 - www-m8.ma.tum.de\
Abstract. In this paper, we establish an approach to the existence theory of certain \
degenerate fourth-order evolution equations which arise in applications in mathematical \
physics; particular examples are the Cahn-Hilliard and the (destabilized) thin film equation
\b  ...\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.zentralblatt-math.org/zmath/en/advanced/?q=an:pre06052907&format=complete"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Zbl pre06052907}}
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://journal.ccsenet.org/index.php/jmr/article/download/12821/8942"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Optimal Couplings of Kantorovich-Rubinstein-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul Lp-distance}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://journal.ccsenet.org/index.php/jmr/article/download/12821/8942"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from ccsenet.org}}
\b0\fs20 Y Shen - Journal of Mathematics Research, 
\b Vol. 
\b0  3, No. 4; November 2011   - journal.ccsenet.org\
Yinfang Shen (Corresponding author) Institute of Mathematics and\
Statistics, Zhejiang University of Finance and Economics PO 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4681"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Conformal \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance: Comparing disk and sphere-type surfaces in polynomial time II, computational aspects}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 Y Lipman, J Puente\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1103.4681, 2011.published in 2013\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1103.4408"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Conformal 
\i \ulnone Wasserstein
\i0 \ul  distances: comparing surfaces in polynomial }}
\b\fs28 \cf4 time
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 by Y Lipman - 2011 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&lr=&cites=13824224918861546357&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=X&ei=vZzqUNPBFPO90QG3woH4BA&ved=0CHoQzgIwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Cited by 5}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&lr=&q=related:dYPY31GD2b8J:scholar.google.com/&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=X&ei=vZzqUNPBFPO90QG3woH4BA&ved=0CHsQzwIwBg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Related articles}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4  arXiv  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/find/math/1/au:+Lipman_Y/0/1/0/all/0/1"}}{\fldrslt Yaron Lipman}}\cf0 \ulnone , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/find/math/1/au:+Daubechies_I/0/1/0/all/0/1"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Ingrid Daubechies}}\
Mar 22, 2011 \'96 We determine the "similarity" of two given surfaces by solving a 
\i mass
\i0 -
\i transportation
\i0  problem between their conformal densities. This mass 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 published 2011\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00641378/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Large Deviations for a matching problem related to the\uc0\u8734 -\ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/docs/00/64/13/78/PDF/wasserstein.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from archives-ouvertes.fr}}
\b0\fs20 J Trashorras - Arxiv preprint math.PR/0000000 - hal.archives-ouvertes.fr\
R\'e9sum\'e9 en anglais: Let $(E, d) $ be a compact metric space, $ X=(X_1,\\ dots, X_n,\\ dots) $ \
and $ Y=(Y_1,\\ dots, Y_n,\\ dots) $ two independent sequences of independent $ E $-valued \
random variables and $(L^ X_n) _ \{n\\ geq 1\} $ and $(L^ Y_n) _ \{n\\ geq 1\} $ the associated 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.5927"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Distribution's template estimate with \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metrics}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1111.5927"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 E Boissard, TL Gouic\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1111.5927, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: In this paper we tackle the problem of comparing distributions of random variables \
and defining a mean pattern between a sample of random events. Using barycenters of \
measures in the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space, we propose an iterative version as an estimation of 
\b ...
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://smai.emath.fr/smai2011/resumesPDF/rabin/Abstract.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Barycentre de \ulnone Wasserstein}}
\b\fs28   
\b0\fs20 J RABIN, G PEYR\'c9\'85 - smai.emath.fr\
Contexte De nombreuses applications en vision par ordinateur ou en traitement d'images \
requierent une \'e9tape pr\'e9liminaire d'apprentissage des statistiques \'93moyennes\'94 des \
caract\'e9ristiques d'une classe d'objets. Cette probl\'e9matique a \'e9t\'e9 principalement \'e9tudi\'e9 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sites.google.com/site/rabinjulien/publications/Rabin_final_SSVM11.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Wasserstein \ul barycenter and its application to texture mixing}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://sites.google.com/site/rabinjulien/publications/Rabin_final_SSVM11.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from google.com}}
\b0\fs20 J Rabin, G Peyr\'e9, J Delon\'85 - Proc. of SSVM, 2011 - sites.google.com\
Abstract. This paper proposes a new definition of the averaging of discrete probability \
distributions as a barycenter over the Monge-Kantorovich optimal transport space. To \
overcome the time complexity involved by the numerical solving of such problem, the 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://projecteuclid.org/euclid.ejs/1320416979"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc3 Deconvolution for the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric and geometric inference}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/docs/00/60/78/06/PDF/RR-7678.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from archives-ouvertes.fr}}
\b0\fs20 C Caillerie, F Chazal, J Dedecker\'85 -{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://projecteuclid.org/handle/euclid.ejs"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Electron. J. Statist.}}
\fs24  Volume 5 (2011), 1394-1423.
\fs20  - projecteuclid.org\
Abstract Recently, Chazal, Cohen-Steiner and M\'e9rigot have defined a distance function to \
measures to answer geometric inference problems in a probabilistic setting. According to \
their result, the topological properties of a shape can be recovered by using the distance 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1110.3606"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc3 Convergence to equilibrium in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance for Fokker-Planck equations}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1110.3606"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf2 [PDF]\ul  from arxiv.org}}
\b0\fs20 F Bolley, I Gentil\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1110.3606, 2011 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We describe conditions on non-gradient drift diffusion Fokker-Planck equations for \
its solutions to converge to equilibrium with a uniform exponential rate in 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 \
distance. This asymptotic behaviour is related to a functional inequality, which links the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:ryFb8I4PI-IJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2011&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=16294884983348863407&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2011&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 All 6 versions}}
\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://basepub.dauphine.fr/handle/123456789/7260"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 Convergence to equilibrium in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance for Fokker-Planck equations}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs20 \cf0 A Guillin, I Gentil\'85 - 2011 - basepub.dauphine.fr\
R\'e9sum\'e9 en anglais: We describe conditions on non-gradient drift diffusion Fokker-Planck \
equations for its solutions to converge to equilibrium with a uniform exponential rate in \

\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance. This asymptotic behaviour is related to a functional inequality, 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\b0\fs36 \cf0 2012  
\fs34 not in Math. Reviews   
\fs36 38 items\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc

\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.wvu.edu/%7Eadriant/torus01-05-12.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 An extension of the Weak KAM theory to the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul torus}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.wvu.edu/%7Eadriant/torus01-05-12.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf6 [PDF]\ul  from wvu.edu}}
\b0\fs24 \
W Gangbo\'85 - math.wvu.edu\
Abstract The study of asymptotic behavior of minimizing trajectories on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 \
space P (Td) has so far been limited to the case d= 1 as all prior studies heavily relied on the \
isometric identification of P (T) with a subset of the Hilbert space L2 (0, 1). There is no 
\b ...
\f1\b0\fs20 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/37N3873024201060.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 Wasserstein \ul barycenter and its application to texture mixing}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 J Rabin, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=KqA1dYcAAAAJ&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 G Peyr\'e9}}, J Delon\'85 - Scale Space and Variational \'85, 2012 - Springer\
This paper proposes a new definition of the averaging of discrete probability distributions as \
a barycenter over the Monge-Kantorovich optimal transport space. To overcome the time \
complexity involved by the numerical solving of such problem, the original 
\b Wasserstein ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=10311413298156570915&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cited by 18}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:I4ncMMN_GY8J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=10311413298156570915&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 All 3 versions}}  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1206.2673"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 arxiv.org}}\cf3   \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ceremade.dauphine.fr/%7Epeyre/publications/bibtexbrowser.php?key=rabin-ssvm-11&bib=peyre-biblio-string.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-articles.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-book.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-bookchap.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-en.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-fr.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-preprint.bib"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [bib]}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00476064/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [pdf]}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-24785-9"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [doi]}} \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.2673"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Moreau-Yosida approximation and convergence of Hamiltonian systems on \ulnone Wasserstein \ul space}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 HK Kim - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1206.2673, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: In this paper, we study the stability property of Hamiltonian systems on the \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Wasserstein 
\b0 space. Let $ H $ be a given Hamiltonian satisfying certain properties. We \
regularize $ H $ using the Moreau-Yosida approximation and denote it by $ H_\\ tau. $ We 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf3 \
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://people.tamu.edu/%7Eahalder/FurtherResults.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul Further Results on Probabilistic Model Validation in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Metric}}\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=0r__iyVPlB4C&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul A Halder}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=2LF_sqEAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul R Bhattacharya}} - 51st IEEE Conference on Decision \'85, 2012 - people.tamu.edu\
Abstract\'97In a recent work [1], we have introduced a probabilistic formulation for the model \
validation problem to provide a unifying framework for (in) validating nonlinear deterministic \
and stochastic models, in both discrete and continuous time. As an extension to that work, 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:e_LDVQMtqbIJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 View as HTML}}  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1202.1259"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 arxiv.org}}\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1259"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 Wasserstein \ul decay of one dimensional jump-diffusions}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=gDjD6xEAAAAJ&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 B Cloez}}
\b0\fs24  - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1202.1259, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We are interested by a one dimensional Markov process which moves following a \
diffusion for some random time and then jumps. It can represent some natural phenomena \
like size of cell or data transmission over the Internet. The paper begin with some results 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:iuUJB0RNnK0J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=12509958819499599242&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 All 6 versions}}  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://isites.harvard.edu/fs/docs/icb.topic955399.files/Paper04_Fischman_03-05.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://harvard.edu"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 harvard.edu}}\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf3 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://people.tamu.edu/%7Eahalder/FreqDomACC2013.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf3 Frequency Domain Model Validation in Wasserstein Metric}}
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
File Format: PDF/Adobe Acrobat - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:I3CwnF03xIIJ:people.tamu.edu/%7Eahalder/FreqDomACC2013.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESiVIEmUsKML5KmUveqqlZ48aaBMxvFtxjWwuzu7GRCqA526NhgHavY7RO42DF2NzdjSg2kfhufzkPfwafIxUogtg3jFAOj24BzhSI7i9eFnuCInEZtCPYwJ38DTLzs-7N7mkYaD&sig=AHIEtbScS-lRBsW88wRxRlibP38MTb_yxg"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Quick View}}\
by A Halder - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&lr=&q=related:_lPGc5IVhVMJ:scholar.google.com/&um=1&ie=UTF-8&sa=X&ei=_5PoUPyXDaHD0QHuk4HYDg&ved=0CDsQzwIwAA"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}}\cf3 \ul   \cf0 \ulnone  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1203.0676"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}\cf3 arxiv.org{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://people.tamu.edu/%7Eahalder/ACC2013_FrequencyDomain.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3  - }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Tamu.edu"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Tamu.edu}}
\b\fs28 \ul  
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \ulnone A. Halder and R. Bhattacharya submitted 2013\
Abstract:This paper connects the time-
\i domain
\i0  uncertainty propagation approach for 
\i model validation in Wasserstein distance
\i0  2W2, introduced by the authors in 
\b ...
\b0 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.0676"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 Wasserstein \ul gradient flows from large deviations of thermodynamic limits}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 MH Duong, V Laschos\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1203.0676, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We study the Fokker-Planck equation as the hydrodynamic limit of a stochastic \
particle system on one hand and as a 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 gradient flow on the other. We write the \
rate functional, that characterizes the large deviations from the hydrodynamic limit, in a 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=3872889298237464525&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cited by 1}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:zR_bG0xEvzUJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.uvic.ca/%7Eagueh/Agueh_Bowles_2011.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://uvic.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 uvic.ca}}\cf3  \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.uvic.ca/%7Eagueh/Agueh_Bowles_2011.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 One-dimensional numerical algorithms for gradient flows in the p-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 M Agueh\'85 - math.uvic.ca\
Abstract We numerically approximate, on the real line, solutions to a large class of parabolic \
partial differential equations which are \'93gradient flows\'94 of some energy functionals with \
respect to the Lp-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 metrics for all p> 1. Our method relies on variational 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:et4RUxBM87gJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:et4RUxBM87gJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 View as HTML}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1205.6565"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 arxiv.org}}\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.6565"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Contraction of the proximal map and generalized convexity of the Moreau-Yosida regularization in the 2-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 EA Carlen\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1205.6565, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We investigate the Moreau-Yosida regularization and the associated proximal map \
in the context of discrete gradient flow for the 2-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 metric. Our main results are a \
stepwise contraction property for the proximal map and a restricted convexity result for the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ipa.iwr.uni-heidelberg.de/ipabib/Papers/SchmitzerJMIV2012.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Modelling Convex Shape Priors and Matching based on the Gromov-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 B Schmitzer, C Schn\'f6rr - Journal of Mathematical Imaging and Vision, 2012 - Springer\
Abstract In this paper we present a novel convex shape prior functional with potential for \
application in variational image segmentation. Starting point is the Gromov-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 \
Distance which is successfully applied in shape recognition and classification tasks but 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:uTqccxRLLzIJ:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 View as HTML}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1206.3219"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 arxiv.org}}\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1206.3219"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Generalized \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance and its application to transport equations with source}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=ify5zKQAAAAJ&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 B Piccoli}}
\b0\fs24 \'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1206.3219, 2012 - arxiv.org\
We use this generalized 
\b Wasserstein
\b0  distance to study a transport equation with source, in which \
both the vector field and the source depend on the measure itself. We prove existence and uniqueness \
of the solution to the Cauchy problem when the vector field and the source are 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1201.2367"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 arxiv.org}}\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1201.2367"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cahn-Hilliard and Thin Film equations with nonlinear mobility as gradient flows in weighted-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul metrics}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 S Lisini, D Matthes\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1201.2367, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: In this paper, we establish a novel approach to proving existence of non-negative \
weak solutions for degenerate parabolic equations of fourth order, like the Cahn-Hilliard and \
certain thin film equations. The considered evolution equations are in the form of a 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=13379203289698295777&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cited by 1}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:4V80hIF6rLkJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=13379203289698295777&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 All 9 versions}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1436"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Linear regression for numeric symbolic variables: an ordinary least squares approach based on \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=5NlbK9EAAAAJ&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 A Irpino}}
\b0\fs24 \'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1202.1436, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: In this paper we present a linear regression model for modal symbolic data. The \
observed variables are histogram variables according to the definition given in the \
framework of Symbolic Data Analysis and the parameters of the model are estimated 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6169977"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Classification of periodic activities using the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 L Oudre, J Jakubowicz, P Bianchi\'85 - \'85 , IEEE Transactions on, 2012 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
Abstract In this paper, we introduce a novel nonparametric classification technique based on \
the use of the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance. The proposed scheme is applied in a biomedical \
context for the analysis of recorded accelerometer data: the aim is to retrieve three types of 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/pdf/1205.3690"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 [PDF] from }}{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 arxiv.org}}\cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 Volume: 59 \'a0\'a0Issue: 6 \'a0\'a0Pages: 1610-1619\cf3 \
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://people.math.gatech.edu/%7Egangbo/publications/torus2012.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 WEAK KAM ON THE \ulnone WASSERSTEIN \ul TORUS WITH MULTI-DIMENSIONAL UNDERLYING SPACE}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 W GANGBO\'85 - people.math.gatech.edu\
Abstract. The study of asymptotic behavior of minimizing trajectories on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 \
space P (Td) has so far been limited to the case d= 1 as all prior studies heavily relied on the \
isometric identification of P (T) with a subset of the Hilbert space L2 (0, 1). There is no 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:njMy6S4K7z8J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.googleusercontent.com/scholar?q=cache:njMy6S4K7z8J:scholar.google.com/+allintitle:+wasserstein&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 View as HTML}}\cf3 \ul \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/N662150142172160.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Transport Equation with Nonlocal Velocity in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Spaces: Convergence of Numerical Schemes}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=ify5zKQAAAAJ&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 B Piccoli}}
\b0\fs24 \'85 - Acta Applicandae Mathematicae, 2012 - Springer\
Abstract Motivated by pedestrian modelling, we study evolution of measures in the \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Wasserstein 
\b0 space. In particular, we consider the Cauchy problem for a transport equation, \
where the velocity field depends on the measure itself. We deal with numerical schemes 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1203.5377"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 An Analog of the 2-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul Metric in Non-commutative Probability under which the Fermionic Fokker-Planck Equation is Gradient Flow for the Entropy}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 EA Carlen\'85 - Arxiv preprint arXiv:1203.5377, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: Let $\\ Cl $ denote the Clifford algebra over $\\ R^ n $, which is the von Neumann \
algebra generated by $ n $ self-adjoint operators $ Q_j $, $ j= 1,..., n $ satisfying the \
canonical anticommutation relations, $ Q_iQ_j+ Q_jQ_i= 2\\ delta_ \{ij\} I $, and let $\\ tau $ 
\b ...\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cqvip.com/qk/91690x/201212/41597942.html"}}{\fldrslt 
\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \'90\'94\'90\'98\uc0\u25366 \'8c\'40\'92\'86\'8b\'e6
\f7\b0 \'bc\'e4\'ca\'fd\'be\'dd\'c4\'a3\'ba\'fd\'be\'db\'c0\'e0\'d1\'d0\'be\'bf
\f1\b \'97\'97
\f5 \'8a\'ee\'98\'b0
\f1  \ulnone Wasserstein 
\f7\b0 \ul \'b2\'e2\'b6\'c8}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f5\b0\fs24 \cf0 \'97\'9b
\f7 \'ba\'ec
\f1 \'85 - 
\f7 \'bc\'c6\'cb\'e3\'bb\'fa\'b9\'a4\'b3\'cc\'d3\'eb\'d3\'a6\'d3\'c3
\f1 , 2012 - cqvip.com\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f7 \cf0 \'d5\'eb\'b6\'d4\'c4\'bf\'c7\'b0\'c7\'f8\'bc\'e4\'ca\'fd\'be\'dd\'c4\'a3\'ba\'fd\'be\'db\'c0\'e0\'d1\'d0\'be\'bf\'d6\'d0\'c7\'f8\'bc\'e4\'be\'e0\'c0\'eb\'b6\'a8\'d2\'e5\'b4\'e6\'d4\'da\'b5\'c4\'be\'d6\'cf\'de\'d0\'d4
\f1 , 
\f5 \'88\'f8\'93\'fc\'94\'5c\uc0\u22815 \'8d\'6c
\f7 \'c2\'c7\'c7\'f8\'bc\'e4\'ca\'fd\'d6\'b5\'b7\'d6\'b2\'bc\'cc\'d8\'d5\'f7
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f5 \cf0 \'93\'49
\f1\b Wasserstein 
\f5\b0 \'8b\'97\uc0\u31163 
\f7 \'b2\'e2\'b6\'c8
\f1 , 
\f5 \'92\'f1\'8f\'6f\'8a\'ee\'98\'b0
\f1\b Wasserstein 
\f5\b0 \'8b\'97\uc0\u31163 
\f7 \'b2\'e2\'b6\'c8\'b5\'c4\'b5\'a5\'d6\'b8\'b1\'ea\'ba\'cd\'cb\'ab\'d6\'b8\'b1\'ea\'d7\'d4\'ca\'ca\'d3\'a6\'c4\'a3\'ba\'fd\'be\'db\'c0\'e0
\f1 \

\f5 \'8e\'5a\'96\'40\'8b\'79\'93\'52\'91\'e3\'96\'cd\'8c\'5e
\f1 . 
\f5 \'92\'ca
\f7 \'b9\'fd\'b7\'c2\'d5\'e6\'ca\'b5\'d1\'e9\'ba\'cd
\f1 CR 
\f5 \'8e\'77\'90\'94
\f1 , 
\f7 \'d6\'a4\'ca\'b5\'c1\'cb\'b8\'c3\'c0\'e0\'c4\'a3\'d0\'cd\'b5\'c4\'d3\'c5\'ca\'c6
\f1 . 
\f7 \'b8\'c3\'cb\'e3\'b7\'a8\'d4\'da\'ba\'a3\'c1\'bf
\f1 , 
\f5 \'91\'cd
\f7 \'bb\'fd\'c8\'e7\'c9\'bd
\f1\b  ...\
[Li Hong , Sun Qiu   Bi 
\fs20 Data Mining the interval fuzzy clustering - based Wasserstein measure
\fs24 ]\
[S{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_c?depth=1&ei=vorqUIHXF9PF0AHf8ICIBg&hl=en&prev=/search%3Fq%3D%25E6%2595%25B0%25E6%258D%25AE%25E6%258C%2596%25E6%258E%2598%25E4%25B8%25AD%25E5%258C%25BA%25E9%2597%25B4%25E6%2595%25B0%25E6%258D%25AE%25E6%25A8%25A1%25E7%25B3%258A%25E8%2581%259A%25E7%25B1%25BB%25E7%25A0%2594%25E7%25A9%25B6%26hl%3Den%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26hs%3Dpe9%26tbo%3Dd%26rls%3Dorg.mozilla:en-US:official&rurl=translate.google.com&sl=zh-CN&twu=1&u=http://www.cqvip.com/Main/Search.aspx%3Fo%3D%25E7%25A6%258F%25E5%25B7%259E%25E5%25A4%25A7%25E5%25AD%25A6%25E7%25AE%25A1%25E7%2590%2586%25E5%25AD%25A6%25E9%2599%25A2%25E7%25BB%259F%25E8%25AE%25A1%25E7%25B3%25BB&usg=ALkJrhgYKvsqxIhD23MfGErPEeBqHDkLzA"}}{\fldrslt 
\i \cf4 \ul \ulc4 chool of Management Department of Statistics,}}
\i  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://translate.googleusercontent.com/translate_c?depth=1&ei=vorqUIHXF9PF0AHf8ICIBg&hl=en&prev=/search%3Fq%3D%25E6%2595%25B0%25E6%258D%25AE%25E6%258C%2596%25E6%258E%2598%25E4%25B8%25AD%25E5%258C%25BA%25E9%2597%25B4%25E6%2595%25B0%25E6%258D%25AE%25E6%25A8%25A1%25E7%25B3%258A%25E8%2581%259A%25E7%25B1%25BB%25E7%25A0%2594%25E7%25A9%25B6%26hl%3Den%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26hs%3Dpe9%26tbo%3Dd%26rls%3Dorg.mozilla:en-US:official&rurl=translate.google.com&sl=zh-CN&twu=1&u=http://www.cqvip.com/Main/Search.aspx%3Fo%3D%25E7%25A6%258F%25E5%25B7%259E350108&usg=ALkJrhh0nFQujnbUveyLZhJsv06IPUlLpw"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 Fuzhou 350108}}\cf4 \ul \ulc4 ]
\i0\fs20 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs24 \cf0 Abstract:
\b0 \
The Wasserstein distance measure introduced to be able to consider the limitations of fuzzy clustering interval data interval distance defined interval value distribution characteristics, proposed based on the Wasserstein distance measure single indicators and indicators adaptive fuzzy clustering algorithm and iterative model. confirmed the advantages of this kind of model simulation and CR Index, the algorithm has important practical significance in the massive mountains of data mining.
\b\fs48 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/705026586777705g.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Passing to the limit in a \ulnone Wasserstein \ul gradient flow: from diffusion to reaction}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 S Arnrich, A Mielke, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=XubcLtcAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 MA Peletier}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=w7qH1YYAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 G Savar\'e9}}\'85 - Calculus of Variations \'85, 2012 - Springer\
Abstract We study a singular-limit problem arising in the modelling of chemical reactions. At \
finite \uc0\u949 \\,>\\, 0, the system is described by a Fokker-Planck convection-diffusion equation with \
a double-well convection potential. This potential is scaled by 1/\uc0\u949 , and in the limit \u949 \\ to0, 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=11768354974373654257&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cited by 12}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:8S4-bn-YUaMJ:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=11768354974373654257&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 All 18 versions}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?as_q=Wasserstein&as_epq=&as_oq=&as_eq=&as_occt=title&as_sauthors=&as_publication=&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012&hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C39#"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cite}}\cf3 \ul \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.worldscientific.com/doi/abs/10.1142/S1793525312500112"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ulc3 Cone structure of L2-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul spaces}}
\b\fs28 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 A TAKATSU, T YOKOTA - Journal of Topology and Analysis, 2012 - World Scientific\
The aim of this paper is to obtain a better understanding of the geometric structure of \
quadratic 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 spaces over separable Hilbert spaces. For this sake, we focus on \
their cone and product structures, and prove that the quadratic 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space over 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cites=18341608855544803233&as_sdt=5,39&sciodt=0,39&hl=en"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cited by 1}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=related:oS_oexN8iv4J:scholar.google.com/&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Related articles}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?cluster=18341608855544803233&hl=en&as_sdt=0,39&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 All 3 versions}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/scholar?as_q=Wasserstein&as_epq=&as_oq=&as_eq=&as_occt=title&as_sauthors=&as_publication=&as_ylo=2012&as_yhi=2012&hl=en&as_sdt=0%2C39#"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Cite}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.4273"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Subgeometric rates of convergence of Markov processes in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 O Butkovsky - arXiv preprint arXiv:1211.4273, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We establish subgeometric bounds on convergence rate of general Markov \
processes in the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 metric. In the discrete time setting we prove that the Lyapunov \
drift condition and the existence of a" good" d-small set imply subgeometric convergence 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.wvu.edu/%7Eadriant/Gangbo-Tudorascu07-13-12.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 WEAK KAM THEORY ON THE \ulnone WASSERSTEIN \ul TORUS WITH MULTI-DIMENSIONAL UNDERLYING SPACE}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 W GANGBO, A TUDORASCU - math.wvu.edu\
Abstract. The study of asymptotic behavior of minimizing trajectories on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 \
space P (Td) has so far been limited to the case d= 1 as all prior studies heavily relied on the \
isometric identification of P (T) with a subset of the Hilbert space L2 (0, 1). There is no 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1202.1436"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Linear regression for numeric symbolic variables: an ordinary least squares approach based on \ulnone Wasserstein \ul Distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=5NlbK9EAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 A Irpino}}
\b0\fs24 , R Verde - arXiv preprint arXiv:1202.1436, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: In this paper we present a linear regression model for modal symbolic data. The \
observed variables are histogram variables according to the definition given in the \
framework of Symbolic Data Analysis and the parameters of the model are estimated 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6169977"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Classification of periodic activities using the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=aSXlodEAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 L Oudre}}
\b0\fs24 , J Jakubowicz, P Bianchi\'85 - \'85 , IEEE Transactions on, 2012 - ieeexplore.ieee.org\
Abstract In this paper, we introduce a novel nonparametric classification technique based on \
the use of the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance. The proposed scheme is applied in a biomedical \
context for the analysis of recorded accelerometer data: the aim is to retrieve three types of 
\b ...\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING\'a0\'a0Volume: 59 \'a0\'a0Issue: 6 \'a0\'a0Pages: 1610-1619 \'a0\'a0DOI: 10.1109/TBME.2012.2190930 Published: JUN 2012\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1205.3690"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Speed of convergence to equilibrium in \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metrics for Kac's like kinetic equations}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 F Bassetti, E Perversi - arXiv preprint arXiv:1205.3690, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: This work deals with a class of one-dimensional measure-valued kinetic equations, \
which constitute extensions of the Kac caricature. It is known that if the initial datum belongs \
to the domain of normal attraction of an\\ alpha-stable law, the solution of the equation 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs28 \cf0 [PDF] {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.math.wvu.edu/%7Eadriant/torus01-05-12.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 An extension of the Weak KAM theory to the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul torus}}\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 W Gangbo, A Tudorascu - math.wvu.edu\
Abstract The study of asymptotic behavior of minimizing trajectories on the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 \
space P (Td) has so far been limited to the case d= 1 as all prior studies heavily relied on the \
isometric identification of P (T) with a subset of the Hilbert space L2 (0, 1). There is no 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1209.5909"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Decomposition of geodesics in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul space and the globalization property}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 F Cavalletti - arXiv preprint arXiv:1209.5909, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: Let $(X, d, m) $ be a non-branching metric measure space verifying $\\ mathsf \{CD\} \
_ \{loc\}(K, N) $ or equivalently $\\ mathsf \{CD\}^\{*\}(K, N) $. In this note we show that given a \
geodesic $\\ mu_ \{t\} $ in the $ L^\{2\} $-
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 space, it is always possible to write the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00749519/"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Estimation of deformations between distributions by minimal \ulnone Wasserstein \ul distance.}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 H Lescornel, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=FOjlzgoAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 JM Loubes}} - 2012 - hal.archives-ouvertes.fr\
Abstract We consider the issue of estimating a measure observed in a deformation \
framework. For this we consider a parametric deformation model on an empirical sample \
and provide a new matching criterion for cloud points based on a generalization of the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://bcc.impan.pl/6ICSA/uploads/e3704ff5e6944900b8d6b019b94b5ce6.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 AN EXTENSION OF \ulnone WASSERSTEIN \ul CONTRACTION ASSOCIATED WITH THE CURVATURE-DIMENSION CONDITION}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 K KUWADA - bcc.impan.pl\
We obtain a new characterization of complete Riemannian manifolds with lower Ricci \
curvature bound and upper dimension bound in terms of the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance between \
heat distributions. It is formulated as a local space-time Lipschitz estimate of the 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&ved=0CEYQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Flib.cqvip.com%2Fread%2Fdetail.aspx%3FID%3D41347638&ei=O5noULnHGImp0AGFroGgBw&usg=AFQjCNFmMSwswcyKLIbR2NlomFc6qrj9rg&sig2=_bWnl1YhmBzRzY5e7rpovw&bvm=bv.1355534169,d.dmQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f5\b\fs28 \cf3 \'93\'f1\'8c\'b3\uc0\u31163 \'8e\'55
\f1\i antorovich-Rubinstein-Wasserstein L2
\i0 \ul -
\f5 \ulnone \'8b\'97\uc0\u31163 \'93\'49\'90\'b8\u30830 \'95\'5c\'8e\'a6\ul \'8d\'dd
\f7\b0 \'cf\'df
\f1\b  \ulnone ...}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\i\b0\fs24 \cf0 lib.cqvip.com/read/detail.aspx?ID...
\i0 \'a0- {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=zh-CN&u=http://lib.cqvip.com/read/detail.aspx%3FID%3D41347638&prev=/search%3Fq%3D%25E4%25BA%258C%25E5%2585%2583%25E7%25A6%25BB%25E6%2595%25A3%2Bantorovich-Rubinstein-Wasserstein%2BL2-%25E8%25B7%259D%25E7%25A6%25BB%25E7%259A%2584%25E7%25B2%25BE%25E7%25A1%25AE%25E8%25A1%25A8%25E7%25A4%25BA%26hl%3Den%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26hs%3DZWc%26tbo%3Dd%26rls%3Dorg.mozilla:en-US:official&sa=X&ei=O5noULnHGImp0AGFroGgBw&ved=0CEgQ7gEwAQ"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Translate this page}}\cf3 \ul  [\cf0 \ulnone accurate representation of the binary the discrete Kantorovich-Rubinstein-Wasserstein L2-distance]\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f5 \cf0 \'96\'7b\'95\'b6\'93\'be\'93\'9e\'93\'f1\'8c\'b3\uc0\u31163 \'8e\'55
\f1 Kantorovich-Rubinstein-WassersteinL2-
\f5 \'8b\'97\uc0\u31163 \'93\'49\'88\'ea\'98\'a2\'90\'b8\u30830 \'95\'5c\'8e\'a6\'81\'42\
SHEN Yin Fong\
An accurate representation of the binary discrete antorovich-Rubinstein-Wasserstein L2-distance\
Hangzhou 310018, Zhejiang Finance and Economics College of Mathematics and Statistics 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://repositorio.bce.unb.br/handle/10482/11293"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Testes de similaridade na dist\'e2ncia de Mallows-\ulnone Wasserstein \ul ponderada para distribui\'e7\'f5es de cauda pesada}}
\b\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 LP Lopes - 2012 - repositorio.bce.unb.br\
Neste trabalho propomos testes n\'e3o-param\'e9tricos para classes de distribui\'e7\'f5es de cauda \
pesada, que incluem as _-est\'e1veis e as extremais de Fr\'e9chet. As estat\'edsticas apresentadas, \
funcionais do processo quantil emp\'edrico, permitem testar a pertin\'eancia da distribui\'e7\'e3o F 
\b ...
\b0 \
\
Title: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://apps.webofknowledge.com.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/full_record.do?product=UA&search_mode=GeneralSearch&qid=4&SID=2D95ALkKLPDiMiP2Hcl&page=1&doc=7"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Classification of Periodic Activities Using the Wasserstein Distance}}\
Author(s): Oudre, Laurent; Jakubowicz, Jeremie; Bianchi, Pascal; et al.\
Source: IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING\'a0\'a0Volume: 59 \'a0\'a0Issue: 6 \'a0\'a0Pages: 1610-1619 \'a0\'a0DOI: 10.1109/TBME.2012.2190930 \'a0\'a0Published: JUN 2012\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://arxiv.org/abs/1212.2562"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Consistent estimation of a population barycenter in the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul space}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=OZWiUboAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 J Bigot}}
\b0\fs24 , T Klein - arXiv preprint arXiv:1212.2562, 2012 - arxiv.org\
Abstract: We define a notion of barycenter for random probability measures in the \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 Wasserstein 
\b0 space. We give a characterization of the population barycenter in terms of \
existence and uniqueness for compactly supported measures. Then, the problem of 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.springerlink.com/index/v6223u1146284l16.pdf"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Entropic Burgers' equation via a minimizing movement scheme based on the \ulnone Wasserstein \ul metric}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 N Gigli, F Otto - Calculus of Variations and Partial Differential \'85, 2012 - Springer\
Abstract As noted by the second author in the context of unstable two-phase porous medium \
flow, entropy solutions of Burgers' equation can be recovered from a minimizing movement \
scheme involving the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 metric in the limit of vanishing time step size (Otto, 
\b ...
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00593424/"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs28 \cf3 Wasserstein \ul Active Contours}}
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=KqA1dYcAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 G Peyr\'e9}}
\b0\fs24 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=lZRU5hYAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=sra"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 J Fadili}}, J Rabin - Proc. ICIP'12, 2012 - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr"}}{\fldrslt hal.archives-ouvertes.fr}} 
\fs20  
\fs24  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ceremade.dauphine.fr/%7Epeyre/publications/bibtexbrowser.php?key=2012-icip-wasserstein-rbac&bib=peyre-biblio-string.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-articles.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-book.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-bookchap.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-en.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-conf-fr.bib%253Bpeyre-biblio-preprint.bib"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [bib]}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00593424/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 [pdf]}}\
Abstract. In this paper, we propose a novel and rigorous framework for region-based active \
contours that combines the 
\b Wasserstein 
\b0 distance between statistical distributions in arbitrary \
dimension and shape derivative tools. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first 
\b ...\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \
\
\
\
--------------\
90 items + 38  (2012)      + 32  (2011)      = 160 items\
----------------------------------\
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://apps.isiknowledge.com.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/summary.do?product=UA&search_mode=GeneralSearch&qid=1&SID=1AEaikn8bEDmI9KbMJ1&page=2"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 http://apps.isiknowledge.com.ezaccess.libraries.psu.edu/summary.do?product=UA&search_mode=GeneralSearch&qid=1&SID=1AEaikn8bEDmI9KbMJ1&page=2}} \
Web of Knowledge\
\
}